Cape Town - Independent Media has been recognised at the International News Media Association (INMA) for its prowess in how to grow advertising sales.  The annual INMA competition, which has been rewarding media excellence since 1937, evaluates news media companies across three segments: national brands, regional brands and media groups. According to INMA’s website, the 2022 Global Media Awards competition brought in a record 854 entries from 252 news media brands in 46 countries. Participants included newspaper media, magazine media, digital media, television media and radio media. Independent Media’s 2022 INMA entry, a campaign for Chicken Licken’s introduction of a new product, “SoulBites”  –  Nuggets of Wisdom –  won several awards, which included third place for best use of print, as well as third place for the most creative use of advertising formats.  It ultimately won the top slot for the regional best idea to grow advertising sales, proving that the country’s oldest newspaper stable still has what it takes to be current and innovative. Earl J Wilkinson, executive director and CEO of INMA: “Our association’s focus on the fullest range of creativity – brands, platforms, subscriptions, advertising, data, product and newsroom – really shines a light on innovation in news media.” An international jury of 50 executives from 24 countries selected 332 finalists earlier this year, with the winners being announced at the end of last week. South Africa made an impressive dent in the winnings with several representative media walking away with acknowledgements, including Independent Media, which is a regular winner at these prestigious global awards. Independent Media’s wins over the years have included its 2017 Best in Africa award for its Racism Stops with Me project, Sandy Naudé being recognised with a lifetime service award for her contribution to the news industry and INMA events in 2019, as well as ‘Cape Times’ editor Siyavuya Mzansi receiving the 2020 INMA 30 Under 30 award for the rising stars in the global news industry. Independent Media has also been recognised with a Global Innovation Award for Africa in the past, and continues to gather international recognition for its creative media solutions. Congratulating the team on a job well done, Executive Chairman of Independent Media Dr Iqbal Survé remarked: “Our teams pride themselves on their creativity and ability to produce winning solutions for our clients, so this validation of their prowess is well met. It’s also heartening to know that our work is judged on merit and we thank INMA and the judging panel for their support, for what is a brilliant campaign.  Independent Media at its best.” Cape Times