10. E-hailing driver’s final moments revealed The heartbroken family of slain Bolt driver Abongile Mafalala  said they want justice for his murder after his case was postponed in the Wynberg Magistrate’s Court on Monday. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. 9. Kidnapped Kraaifontein man freed by police A kidnapped Kraaifontein man has been freed in a police operation that tracked him to a heavily guarded shack in Browns farm, Philippi. 8. Cash-in-transit robbery suspects nabbed after bottle store heist Two alleged cash-in-transit robbers are set to appear in the Paarl Magistrate’s Court following a robbery at a liquor store in Franschhoek. 7. Farmgate kingpin’s nationality scrutinised The origins of Imanuwela David’s nationality, the alleged mastermind in the farmgate million-dollar heist at President Cyril Ramaphosa’s Phala Phala farm, has been flagged as cause for further investigation by Namibia’s former head of the police's Criminal Investigations Directorate commissioner Nelius Becker in his report. 6. 2 563 community service doctors appointed in public facilities – health minister Health Minister Dr Joe Phaahla said his department has put in place mechanisms to ensure that the next batch of 2 563 community service doctors were allocated and appointed to positions within a reasonable period in 2022-23. 5. Western Cape’s Miss SA finalists shocked, overjoyed to be in Top 10 Two Western Cape contestants, Luvé Meyer of Brackenfell and Tamsyn Jack of Somerset West, have made the top 10 for Miss South Africa 2022. 4. #CapeStorm: Pics and Video Strong winds and heavy rains are causing havoc as an intense cold front persists across Cape Town. 3. Cops ignored missing mom’s plea for help The Manenberg Community Police Forum (CPF) has requested that police leave no stone unturned in the case of Manenberg mother Shireen Essop, after she was found alive at the weekend. 2. Home Affairs pilots appointment booking system – Aaron Motsoaledi The Department of Home Affairs is piloting and rolling out an appointment booking system as a way to manage queues at its branch offices in parts of the country. 1. Farmgate: Namibian top cop warned of fallout A report compiled by Namibia’s former head of the police’s Criminal Investigations Directorate, commissioner Nelius Becker in June 2020 had warned of a fall-out between South Africa and Namibia over the break-in at President Cyril Ramaphosa’s Phala Phala farm in Limpopo where millions of US dollars were concealed before being stolen by a gang plotting with his domestic worker. Cape Times