Cape Town - Four Somali shopkeepers have been shot dead in what is suspected to be linked to extortion of foreign-owned shops in Khayelitsha. The four were killed in Site B Khayelitsha, at Madiba Supermarket in R588 Sulani Drive, after gunmen opened fire on them. Police spokesperson Brigadier Novela Potelwa said organised crime detectives were investigating. “Khayelitsha police have opened murder dockets for investigation following and incident where three men were shot dead. “A fourth one (was) seriously injured and later succumbed in the hospital to injuries sustained on Tuesday evening. “Reports from the scene indicate that unknown gunmen entered the Madiba Supermarket and fired several shots at 7pm. The identities of the deceased persons have not been confirmed yet,” said Potelwa. A friend of the deceased and a witness of the incident, who asked to remain anonymous for his own safety, said foreign nationals were being targeted. “When I returned I saw three guys coming out of the car rushing towards the shop and I knew that something was about to happen. Then I ran back to my house. “Then after that, I heard gunshots and I closed my ears. I have known these guys for many years, they were like my brothers and we always had each other’s back. “The suspects took nothing. If they (had) wanted money, the guys would have given them. I seriously don’t know the motive behind this. “The government must protect foreign nationals. We are here because of business and our businesses are clean businesses,” he said. Site B community activist Patricia Ngemntu said foreign nationals needed to be protected. “We don’t understand why the foreign nationals are being killed because these people help us a lot. “They even employ our people and what I like about them is that their prices are not too high compared to big shops owned mostly by South African citizens. “Even when I don’t have money I would come here and take whatever I want, then I would pay them month-end and they understand how we operate,” she said. “This is seriously heartbreaking, and my worry is what if they decided to leave the area because of these ongoing shootings,” said Ngemntu. About eight foreign nationals have been shot and killed since May in various areas, including Khayelitsha. Two weeks ago, two Somali nationals were killed in Zone 24, Langa. Two were killed in Strand last week. Cape Times