Cape Town - For almost two weeks, the Mzamomhle  local clinic in Browns Farm, Philippi, has been closed after two suspects pretending to be patients robbed security guards at gunpoint and attempted to take medication. The residents were advised to alternatively use Phumlani Clinic in Lower Crossroads and the Weltevreden Valley Clinic located about a 3.9km walk away from Mzamomhle. It was not the first time the clinic had been targeted, according to Browns Farm community activist Nontyatyambo Ntanzi. “Last year people’s phones were robbed while in the queue but this time around the incident was dramatic and everyone was left shocked by what happened. The suspects wanted to take medication. That is why they held the security guards at gunpoint and took their cellphones. They wanted to get inside the facility and take medication but their mission failed. You can imagine the trauma old people experienced during the incidents and some are now hesitant to visit clinics. The other areas are very far from where we live but we have no choice because we want medication,” said Ntanzi. Community Services and Health mayco member Patricia Van der Ross said there had been an increase in incidents at public facilities in recent years. “The City can confirm an armed robbery at Mzamomhle Clinic on Friday, June 10. Just before 3pm, two men arrived at the clinic gate, pretending to be patients and held up two security guards at gunpoint. They forced them into the garage near the gate and robbed them of their phones and other possessions that were in the garage. Other security staff who witnessed the incident raised the alarm for the doors to be closed, but one of the suspects managed to get into the facility and attempted to rob one of the clients. Law enforcement and SAPS were called and arrived promptly, but the suspects managed to get away. Fortunately, no one was injured,” said Van der Ross. Van der Ross said staff had been debriefed and were receiving assistance through the City’s Employee Assistance Programme. “The clinic was closed, with clients being referred to alternative facilities until the clinic reopens. A date for reopening has yet to be determined.” Anyone with information about the incident can anonymously contact Crime Stop on 0860010111 or SMS Crime Line on 322111. Cape Times