Cape Town - In the hope of warming the hearts and feet of children in the poverty-stricken Elsies River, NPO founder Michelle Raubenheimer has embarked on a socks donation drive. Raubenheimer, founder of Voed ’n Mondjie, said her initiative was born after seeing a child in her church with a big pair of socks. “I was just sitting in church and my attention was caught by this one child who had been wearing a big pair of socks because they obviously needed their feet to be warmed. As I sat and watched the child, I realised I wanted to do something to address this need in my community. “One can see other children either with no socks at all or if they do have socks it has been worn out and torn already. Now all I can think about is if I am sitting and getting cold in my home, how do these children feel who do not have that comfort? A winter can never be any other season and is very cold. Our children need this,” said Raubenheimer. In another instance, Raubenheimer said she was approached by another child who was familiar to her in the community where she also serves food. “This boy approached me randomly one night and asked me if I didn't have a pair of socks for him and a pair of shoes as he had no socks and the shoes he was wearing were worn and full of holes. I offered him my pair of socks but he declined and said that I would get cold. “I know I can’t save everybody, but shortly after I gathered a few items that my son doesn’t wear any more. When I gave it to him, he shouted so loud out of happiness and disbelief that he had a few items to keep warm. And this is our goal, to keep our children warm during the cold winter,” said Raubenheimer. Since her drive started, Raubenheimer has placed a few sock donation boxes around her community in the hope of giving each child a pair of socks. “So far we have more than a hundred pairs of socks and I have recently also received another big donation which we are awaiting delivery. If residents can please drop off any donations at the I-Can Centre and Shiloh Community Church in Fountain Road, Matroosfontein, it would be much appreciated,” said Raubenheimer. Anyone wishing to donate can contact Raubenheimer on WhatsApp chat at 073 525 7551 or 065 211 8147. Alternatively, you can make donations to Capitec savings account, account number 177 777 6447, Voed ‘n Mondjie NPO (registration number 271 279). Cape Times