Cape Town - The School Governing body (SGB) Heathfield High School has urged the schooling community to allow a mediation process, that has been established to bring stability, to run its course. It has also emerged that a handful of teachers were resistant to the mediation process currently underway and were attempting to derail efforts to bring stability to the school. Learning has been disrupted by ongoing protests at the school for more than 13 days and escalated when two acting principals were deployed at the by Western Cape Education Department. Disgruntled pupils demonstrated at the principal’s office demanding them to leave. The unrest stems from the firing of principal Wesley Neuman that came into effect on May 20 after he announced his decision to decline the WCED’s demotion offer. A disciplinary committee had found Neuman guilty of six charges of misconduct that emanated from his refusal to reopen the school in June 2020, during the Covid-19 peak. In a letter to the school community on Friday night, the SGB stated that while people had the right to protest and they were also in support of Neumann, the rights of others should not be infringed. “The dismissal of Neumann as principal of Heathfield High School has undoubtedly destabilised our school. Making the situation at school extremely difficult to manage. Children have the right to education and the right to protest and demonstrate. However, throughout this process, the rights of all must be protected. “As a school community, we called for all stakeholders to assist in getting the children back into class so that learning and teaching can resume while the school community follows the mediation process with the department. Since the call for the return of learners to class, 90 to 95% of learners have reported to class for formal lessons,” the SGB said. However it noted that a small majority of pupils have refused to return to class which they are hoping to resolve with sensitivity. It has also emerged that a handful of teachers were resistant to the mediation process currently underway and were attempting to derail efforts to bring stability to the school.  WCED spokesperson Bronagh Hammond said through the contracted independent facilitator who started last week they want to restore peace and ensure learning continues and that teachers were able to teach in a safe environment. “We continue to appeal to all the parents of the learners at Heathfield High School to assist us in stabilising the school by ensuring that their children prioritise their future learning opportunities by not participating in illegal or disruptive activities. Any further disruption is only to the detriment of the learners at the school and the whole school community. The ongoing ‘demand’ to have Mr Neumann reinstated as principal at Heathfield HS is not legally possible,” said Hammond. Cape Times