Cape Town - The Kannaland Municipality has instituted disciplinary action against three councillors alleged to have made fraudulent travel and subsistence claims to the municipality under the false pretence of performing official duties during 2014/15. The disciplinary action will be instituted against Jeffrey Donson, Werner Meshoa and Hyrin Ruiters who are councillors of the Independent Civic Organisation of South Africa (Icosa).  Information was provided to the Municipal Speaker in May regarding allegations of numerous counts of fraudulent travel claims by the councillors, according to the municipality.  The councillors are also being investigated for issuing incorrect and misleading statements to the public and unlawful occupation of municipal offices among others.  Kannaland acting Municipal Manager Ian Avontuur said a report on the matter will be tabled before Council within the next few weeks.  “Council has taken a serious view of the allegations and they could have serious implications for the three Icosa councillors.  “The speaker has been authorised by Council to spearhead the investigation against the councillors and table a report to Council within the next few weeks,” he said.  Icosa provincial leader Dawid Kamfer  hit back, saying their councillors were “targeted”. “No one is telling us who opened the case or who gave out the information, they can’t answer that question, they are just saying it’s an official. But this is what happens every time something comes up where Mr Donson is involved.  “This thing is very personal between the speaker and Mr Donson.  “The speaker was once part of Icosa, he left and started his own party, and now he tries everything. Mr Donson is not personal against the Speaker, it’s the Speaker who became personal against Mr Donson.  “The  DA and the ANC are running the Council down. I also blame Minister Bredell for the mess in Kannaland. It’s a mess for the people of Kannaland,” he said. While Donson and Meshoa did not respond by deadline, Ruiters said the allegations against him were “shocking”.  “They did not give us any other information. I know nothing about the travel claims because I was not the Speaker for the previous term and I did not claim any travelling fee in that term,” he said.  Local Government MEC Anton Bredell spokesperson’s Wouter Kriel said: “We are considering a similar approach in Kannaland as we are currently employing in Cederberg Municipality. A diagnostic exercise where we explore the challenges and then find solutions together with the municipal leaders.” Cape Times