Cape Town – After months of anticipation, the upgraded and spacious trauma and medical emergency units at Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital welcomed their first patients recently. As vital components of the Paediatric Emergency Centre, staff are on duty here around the clock to care for children who have been involved in road accidents, suffered severe burns, who have severe pneumonia, and who have had seizures. The medical emergency unit sees 75% of children who present to the emergency centre. The hospital said it was pleased to be able to care for children in a safer and more comfortable environment as this would make a difference in the lives of the young patients who needed emergency medical and trauma care at the facility. Janine Mantanus, of Athlone, brought in her daughter Saige, 4, to the emergency unit last Wednesday after she experienced breathing difficulties. “Two years ago, during lockdown, we came to Red Cross Hospital for the same issue, and I was pleased by the care and treatment we received from the doctors then. Today, the feeling is the same, as the doctors here have again reassured me that we would be fine. It was also a relief to not having to wait long for a bed, while the treating doctor also praised Saige for being a good child because she did not cry after receiving a needle.” Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital chief executive Dr Anita Parbhoo and her management team visited the trauma and medical emergency units to welcome the staff and clients to their new space and show appreciation for their efforts. “We are all excited that you have finally moved into the Emergency Centre and being able to care for young patients at our facility, particularly as we find ourselves in an unprecedented paediatric surge due to lower levels of immunity to viral infections and poorer baseline nutritional status. We hope that you will enjoy your new space,” Parbhoo said. According to trauma unit operations manager Sister Sandra Swart, the improved bed capacity and state-of-the-art medical equipment allowed for better treatment of young patients, who were mostly under the age of 5. “Our staff have been eagerly awaiting to open the doors of our new permanent facility. My heart is already in this place, and I would like to thank all the donors and others for helping us to provide children with the quality care that they deserve,” Swart said. Cape Times