Cape Town- Fifty years after tragedy struck the Mount Pleasant community in Hermanus, the grief was still palpable during a commemoration and wreath-laying service held for 53 lives lost in a bus accident on June 11, 1972. A special ceremony was held in remembrance of sports players and supporters who were travelling back home after a sporting event in Paarl when the bus which they were travelling in, suddenly crashed and went through barriers at Riviersonderend in Villiersdorp. Organiser of the commemoration service and current assistant coach at Atlantics Rugby Football Club (ARFC), David Coert, said the bus had been carrying rugby players and supporters. “That is a day that we as a community will and should never forget. And the reason why we have decided to host the commemoration service is to remind our youth and current players that should ‘never forget our heroes’. This is only our second commemoration service, the last one was held when it was 40 years since the accident but we have committed to hosting a special service every 10 years. “Our community was torn when the incident happened because it ripped away 53 people in one go, affecting so many families. I can see the grief is still very raw with my 91-year-old mother-in law who lost five children in that bus accident.  “You can see the hurt in her everyday but at the service one could see just how much hurt there really still is and we want to just keep alive the memories of those who succumbed,” said Coert. Overstrand mayo Annelie Rabie attended the service along with about 1 000 community members at the mass grave at Mount Pleasant cemetery. The service was held in commemoration of Elize Appel, Mercia Aplon, Friedel Swarts, William April, Magdelene April, John April, Ivan April, Francina Pietersen, Henriëtta Pietersen, Hettie Pietersen, Joseph Minnaar, Stephen Philander, Daniël Jansen, Paul Claasen, Maria Claasen, Matthew Davids, Louisa Ross, Willem du Plessis, Hendrik du Plessis, Felicity Benjamin, Maria Gillion, David Gillion, Eric Gillion, Clifford van Nieting, Daniël Petersen, Cornelia Robyntjies, Johnny Robyntjies, Brian Williams, Olga Arendse, Mervyn van der Berg, Desmond Montague, Colin Montague, Jennifer Coxson, Maria de Behr, Frederick de Behr, Fred Jacobs, Apollis Frans, Jan Frans, Audrey Poole, Anita Wentzel, Prins Arendse, Karel Coert , Karel Adams, Ronald Pietersen, Irene Seconna, Andrew Minnaar, Maria Davids, Esmerelda Isaacs, Velia Marais, Gabriël Pieterse, Daniël Plaatjies, Willem Plaatjies and Christopher Plaatjies. Cape Times