Cape Town - The woman who has accused disgraced SA National Parks (SANParks) chief executive officer Fundisile Mketeni of assault and sexual harassment, was allegedly told that no-one would believe her, according to a police report.  Mketeni was dismissed from the top job earlier this month after an internal probe by SANParks found him guilty of six charges brought against him. The process was chaired by an independent professional and resulted in a ruling and recommended sanction being delivered to the board in May 2022, SANParks said.  “Notwithstanding the outcomes of the criminal proceedings against the CEO, the board decision was based on the CEO being found guilty of 6 of the 7 charges levelled against the CEO, based on his having breached the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct Policy and the Disciplinary Policy and Procedure of SANParks,“ said SANParks. In an incident which is said to have occurred in May last year, Mketeni is alleged to have invited a woman and her friend to his house at Skukuza staff village, in the Kruger National Park, according to police.  Mpumalanga police spokesperson Brigadier Selvy Mohlala said Mketeni had allegedly asked the woman if she was comfortable with going to a private place.  “In the bedroom, she alleges that Mr Mketeni closed the door and started touching her inappropriately.  “The ‘victim’ said after (she) pushed him away Mr Mketeni allegedly started insulting her.  “The ‘victim’ alleges that she tried to open the door and Mr Mketeni pushed her and started hitting her; he allegedly pulled her down with her hair and kicked her while she was on the floor,” he said. “The ‘victim’ tried (to find a) way out of the room and she managed to open the door and run outside where everyone was. One of the guests.... allegedly told her, ‘the victim’, to not even think of reporting Mr Mketeni, because he is a man in power and he works with the police so no one will believe her.”  Mketeni and his co-accused were prosecuted and were found not guilty of the offence at the Bushbuckridge Magistrate’s Court last year.  According to sources close to the woman she was very grateful that SANParks was able to undertake a proper investigation, and justice was served. DA member of Parliament’s  portfolio committee for the environment, fisheries and forestry, Annerie Weber said it was about time that men in high positions were held accountable for their actions.  “Mr Mketeni was found guilty of sexual harassment, assault, abusive language, a failure to report someone missing in dangerous circumstances and a failure to report the incident to his superiors timeously. “In their findings, they further held that Mr Mketeni has embarrassed and damaged the name of SANParks, both in the media and with its stakeholders,“ she said.   Mketeni could not be reached by deadline. Cape Times