Cape Town - The sky is the limit for two Heatherlands High School pupils in George who are preparing to fly the South African flag high at a Junior Water Competition in Sweden. Young innovators Anam Halam and Faith Claasen, both in Grade 10, will be jetting off to Stockholm in about two months after defeating fellow pupils in a fierce invention battle at the annual South African Youth Water Prize (SAYWP) competition. The two invented a solution that would switch off automatically and stop water from running when the communal taps in schools and communities are left open or dripping. The competition was aimed at encouraging Grade 10 and 11 pupils from across the country to come up with science and technology-based projects to address water challenges in their communities. The competition began at provincial level, proceeded to national level, and will now head to Sweden, where pupils from 30 countries will compete for the top position. Anam’s father, Mzwanele Halam, said the whole family was excited. “When my daughter told me they will travel for the competition, I encouraged her not to worry. They will win. They really won and were heading for Pretoria to compete at the nationals. I took her to the airport. She was the first person in my family to board a plane, and I wanted to witness that moment. “Even when they were in Gauteng, I told her, in my eyes, they were already the winners because she was very nervous. She called me and informed me about everything there. I screamed at the top of my lungs when she told me she had won and even called my whole family in Eastern Cape. I just couldn’t contain myself. I’m so proud of her,” he said. Department of Water and Sanitation (DWS) Western Cape Provincial Head Ntombizanele Bila-Mupariwa said the two pupils were also the proud recipients of full DWS bursaries to study water-related careers at any higher tertiary institution in South Africa. “All the credit goes to the principal, educators of the school, and parents who supported the learners. Further acknowledgements go to DWS Provincial officials who did a sterling job in preparing these learners for the competition. “On behalf of the department, I wish the two students the best of luck as they prepare for the Junior Water Competition in Stockholm, Sweden, in August 2022. I know they will shine brightly because they have worked so hard,” said Bila-Mupariwa. Cape Times