Cape Town - Two suspects have been arrested for the illegal possession of thousands of West Coast Rock Lobster tails at Olifantsbos in the Table Mountain National Park (TMNP). The suspects were arrested this week after allegedly being found with 5 015 West Coast Rock Lobster tails. South African National Parks (SANParks) said the arrests were an encouraging development in the TMNP anti-poaching crime prevention operations. SANParks acting chief executive, Hapilwe Sello, congratulated rangers who arrested and detained the two suspected poachers. “The swift response taken during an integrated operation between TMNP’s Sea, Air and Mountain (SEAM) special operations rangers, TMNP marine unit and the Environment Crime Investigation (ECI) unit, lead to the successful arrest of the two suspects who were caught in possession of WCRL tails without the necessary permits,” said Sello. SANParks had received information that illegal poaching activity was taking place within the no-take zones along TMNPs Marine Protected Areas. "Rangers geared up and went out to sea at 7pm on June 7 to follow up on the tip-off received. After two hours at sea, no activity was sighted. Then an alert came through that a suspicious vessel was heading in the direction of the Oilifantsbos from the Cape Point section of the park.  “The suspects then sped past the rangers resulting in a hot pursuit which led to the successful arrests," a SANParks statement read. The combined value of the seized resources is estimated at around R220 000. Both suspects and the impounded vessel have been handed over and booked with the Simonstown police for further investigation. Meanwhile, City law enforcement inspector,Wayne Dyason, said three divers were arrested after being found in possession of abalone. "On June 7, the City's Law Enforcement Marine Auxiliary officers, together with Saps Sea border line officers and members of the local Community Safety and Support, conducted a joint operation in the Melkbos Beach area which is a known hot spot for illegal abalone poaching. "While on foot patrol, they spotted three divers exiting the water. The officers approached the divers and found in their possession a total of 278 shucked abalone and 91 unshucked abalone. The divers were arrested by SAPS and were charged in terms of  the Marine and Living Resources Act," said Dyason.  Cape Times