Cape Town - The recent appointment of former Bitou Municipality manager Lonwabo Ngoqo as the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality manager has sparked wide-range controversy. Ngoqo, who was appointed during a council meeting on Thursday, will replace the previous city manager, Noxolo Nqwazi. Bitou Municipality mayor David Swart said they were “surprised” that Ngoqo has emerged in another municipality. Ngoqo was dismissed in 2012 over allegations of financial misconduct and was illegally reappointed by the ANC in 2018, according to Swart. “The DA who was in opposition at the time opposed the appointment and the MEC for Local Government did not approve the appointment either. In the resultant court case the High Court found his appointment illegal. The Bitou Municipality under the ANC lost the appeal and then appealed to the Constitutional Court. They, in December 2021, dismissed the appeal and upheld the original High Court decision. Mr Ngoqo’s last day of employment at Bitou Municipality was December 31 2021. The ANC-run municipality at the time incurred legal costs, paid by the municipality, to try to keep an illegally appointed Mr Ngoqo,“ said. However Ngoqo said: “I resigned because of illegal instructions that the executive mayor wanted me to do.” He confirmed his appointment at the Nelson Mandela Bay municipality. “I was appointed by the NMBM on June 2, but I have not yet been served with a letter of appointment,” he said. While the DA, ACDP and the Freedom Front Plus voted against Ngoqo’s appointment, the ANC, EFF, GOOD and others had supported the appointment. Taking to social media, the DA's federal council chairperson Helen Zille said despite their vehement objections, the parties insisted on supporting Ngoqo for the position. “Although they knew he had been fired as municipal manager in the Bitou Municipality in the Western Cape in 2012, for serious financial misconduct,” she said. Former Nelson Mandela Bay mayor Athol Trollip said Ngoqo did not have or display the requisite values “to hold such a critical position in a municipality that has already been eviscerated by corruption in the ANC-led coalition. NMBM urgently needs a new coalition with a competent, capable city manager not one tainted by corruption and fraud”. The ANC in the Nelson Mandela Bay municipality did not respond to questions. Cape Times