Cape Town - The Animal Welfare Society (AWS) of South Africa has swooped on  ‘dubious’ pet shops in Mitchells Plain and issued stern warnings after being alerted to the alleged unlawful trade in indigenous wild animals, specifically chameleons. This led to the organisation conducting unannounced inspections in Lentegeur, where the pet shop owner allegedly bought chameleons for R5 each from local youngsters eager to earn a few rands then sold them for a small fortune. It was also claimed that  the owner pays R1 for bird’s nests that are apparently removed from trees in Westridge garden. “I have a very big interest in fish and animals so I tend to wander into pet shops. It caught my eye on this specific day when I walked past the pet shop and discovered a fish tank sitting outside with a bunch of chameleons and a shelf with birds nests. It triggered my thoughts that this is wildlife and not pets,” said the concerned resident. “A couple of children down my road were talking about how they collect the nests at Westridge garden and then sell them at the pet shop,” he said. At the time of inspection the pet shop was sold out of chameleons and birds nests but that did not prevent the owner from being issued with a stern final warning. During the inspection  at another pet shop in Rocklands Road, inspectors observed a number of scrawny chickens in the road looking for something to eat, resulting in motorists hooting frantically, swerving to avoid them and braking excessively. The owner was issued with a warning and inspectors insisted that the owner immediately remedy all animal husbandry shortcomings and managed to persuade him to surrender a pair of neglected Dutch Quacker Ducks confined to a cage hidden at the back of the shop. The ducks have been re-homed to a professional avian rehabilitator. “Seeing a pet in a cage or tank in a pet shop tugs at one’s heartstrings but acquiring a pet should never be an emotional decision as a pet is for life. Far too many of the pets surrendered to animal shelters were bought from pet shops thereby exacerbating the challenge of a well-cared for and properly regulated pet population. Adoption is a lot more affordable than buying from a trader and comes with a host of meaningful value added benefits,” said Allan Perrins, spokesperson for the Animal Welfare Society of South Africa. For an animal in distress contact AWS on 021 692 2626. Cape Times