Cape Town - The sexual assault case against DA Theewaterskloof Local Municipality councillor Dawid Jooste has been provisionally withdrawn, while the complainant is unreachable.  Jooste is alleged to have sexually assaulted a woman when he gave her a lift in February.  The victim said she lodged a complaint with the police after the incident.  Jooste had appeared in the Caledon Magistrate’s Court on a charge of sexual assault earlier this month.  National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila on Monday said the case had been provisionally withdrawn.  “A sexual assault case was opened but the matter was provisionally withdrawn as the complainant could not be traced,” Ntabazalila said.  Attempts by the Cape Times to reach the woman were unsuccessful on Monday. In February she told the publication: “He gave me a lift from town to Vyeboom farm. Then he tried to touch me when I pushed his hand away. He said that he didn’t mean it like that. Then after I reached home I told my mom, we immediately posted it to Facebook to ask who he is. After getting the right information I went to the station to open a case of sexual assault. I am angry because I never gave him permission to touch me.” DA provincial chairperson Jaco Londt said no further action would be taken against Jooste.  “We referred the matter to the tagging committee. A watching brief was established. The matter has been withdrawn by the NPA. (There’ll be) no further action,” he said.  Theewaterskloof Municipality mayoral committee member and chairperson of finance, Rinah Mienies, said they were disappointed with the outcome.  “Obviously we are very disappointed with the outcome, as what message are we sending to victims on this kind of behaviour of public representatives. But I believe internal processes will commence, our view is that the case made and council resolutions must be followed in terms of the code of conduct of councillors,” she said.  Gender-based violence (GBV) activist Alexis Serra said complainants of GBV must be guided and assisted correctly, so that their statements have merits and factual evidence, especially when it involves senior officials.  “Sadly, politics has become a commercialised business and an enterprise of self-enrichment. It’s become a profession which attracts crime syndicates, sex pests, opportunists, thugs, murderers, criminals, former jail birds, illiterates, corruptible people and where one no longer requires a moral compass and a degree,” she said.  Cape Times