Cape Town - In a David-versus-Goliath battle a Vredenburg community church has claimed victory after an eviction order brought by the Saldanha Bay municipality in the Western Cape High Court was dismissed with costs.  In the eviction notice which came merely two days before Christmas last year, the municipality ordered the Uni-Faith  Ministries church to vacate the property so they could begin with a housing development.  “A contractor has been appointed and will start with the construction of the infrastructure within 2-3 weeks from date of this letter,” says a letter from the municipality.  “We therefore request that you make the necessary arrangements for alternative and vacate the property.” The municipality said they then resolved to approach the High Court after “all avenues to resolve the breach of contract by the church failed”.  The church vowed to oppose the application. Pastor Izak Roedolf told the Cape Times that their pursuits to engage the municipality on staying on the property were in vain.  He said they had also applied to buy the property in 2005 but were told that “a minister had put a moratorium on the property and it can’t be sold”.  Roedolf said they then re-applied in 2011 and to their surprise they were told the property was “sold to the municipality”.  In the ruling handed down last week,  Western Cape Deputy Judge President Patricia Goliath dismissed the application brought by the municipality with costs. “The municipality is obliged to act in good faith, in transparent manner and remains bound by its own processes.  “I am accordingly satisfied that the applicant had failed to establish that the current occupation of the church in the pre-fabricated building is unlawful,” cited Goliath.  The municipality on Tuesday said their legal counsel were still in a process of studying the judgment and will advise and confirm the way forward in due course. Roedolf said they welcomed the judgment, adding that the “attack” on the church was no surprise to them.  “The church was dragged to court on an urgent basis on 17 December 2021 and the matter was set down on the 23 December 2021.  “All the church did was to defend its position and we took the court in our confidence.  “That’s all we did. We were dumbstruck over the allegation that we are the cause of delaying the housing project, which is devoid of all truth.  “From the outset the church wishes to make it clear that  at all relevant times we worked with the municipality.  “The church from the outset of the housing development, welcomed it as people are in dire needs of housing.  “In August 2018 we wrote a letter to the municipality requesting to be incorporated in the new housing project and we were met with no response.  “The only response was an urgent court application.  “The church looks forward to work with the municipality in the future, as the municipality was never seen or ever will be an enemy of the church,“ he said.  Saldanha Bay community activist Vernon Vraagom said they stood firm that the municipality was trying to “bully” the church.  “I am of an opinion that someone must be held accountable for the spending of taxpayers money to evict the church.  “Council needs to investigate who came with this idea to evict the church.  “That be it officials or councillors must be held accountable for this poor decisions they took,” he said.  Cape Times