Cape Town - The ANC Western Cape Interim Provincial Working Committee (IPWC) has moved to suspend the party memberships of Danville Smith and Bulelani Yosana who are facing criminal charges, with a decision against Andile Lili expected soon.  The IPWC made the announcements on Tuesday during a virtual media briefing following its fortnightly meeting on Monday where reports about the cases and provincial conference were discussed. Embattled Smith, who served in the provincial legislature and as the party’s West Coast regional treasurer was suspended following his arrest last week on theft of motor vehicle and fraud charges along with two foreign nationals. Smith has since denied any wrongdoing, with his representative disagreeing with the reasoning advanced for Smith’s suspension, stating the evidence in the Vredendal matter was “purely circumstantial”. However the ANC’s provincial convenor Lerumo Kalako said while they appreciated that Smith had stepped aside, this was the second indictment on his part. Last year he faced corruption charges and was released on a warning. “The Working Committee has had to evaluate his role in the Provincial Legislature and the fact that for over a year, the ANC had been unable to reap benefits from his participation as a member of the provincial legislature while he is on step-aside. “Based on the gravity of these latest charges and given the fact that he is charged again while serving on another serious charge, the Working Committee resolved to place Cde Danville’s membership on suspension,” said Kalako. The matter has also been referred to the provincial disciplinary committee for adjudication and they were seeking urgent legal advice around his membership of the legislature. Yosana, the Bloekombos ANC branch secretary accused of the recent murder of Bloekombos teacher and ANC member Vuyo Duna, also had his membership temporarily suspended. A process to refer the matter to the disciplinary committee for adjudication has also been initiated. Kalako said they noted he guilty verdict  of incitement to murder against Lili. “We have summoned Cde Lili to meet the officials and present facts around the case. He has indeed made representation as well as noted intention to appeal the judgement. The Working Committee has referred the matter immediately to the National Integrity Commission and for Lili to subject himself to that process.” He said a report would be tabled before the IPC for a final decision on the matter on an urgent basis. Meanwhile ANC provincial coordinator Ronalda Nalumango said the party had not yet reached its targeted threshold for branches and regions in order to host its provincial conference. However he was confident they would be ready before the August deadline. Nalumango said  they had to ensure all issues were dealt with, including technicalities, so as to avoid being taken to court. Cape Times