Cape Town - ANC MPL Danville Smith has denied any wrongdoing following his arrest along with two foreign nationals for fraud and vehicle theft on Tuesday.  The arrests came after police were tipped off about an alleged modus operandi of theft of motor vehicles over the past six months, emanating from owners advertising their vehicles on social media, according to police.  Police spokesperson FC van Wyk said the registered owners of the vehicle were approached by a bogus buyer who made electronic payments and sent fraudulent bank notifications to the seller, which prompted the release of the vehicle with documentation. “A successful integrated undercover operation was conducted, which also led to the seizure of a white BMW. As the investigation progresses, more arrests could be made. The suspects are due to appear in the Vredendal Magistrate’s Court on June 9,” he said. Smith’s legal representative André Johnston, however, said Smith has denied any wrongdoing in the matter.  “We were hoping to discuss the matter with the detective with the view of them considering even the withdrawal of charges or alternatively, Mr Smith can be a witness in respect of the current proceedings.  “I verily believe that the situation Mr Smith has found himself in was purely accidental and that he did not commit any offence as it is currently being alleged,” he said. Johnston told the Cape Times that Smith had “provided a lift to people who were involved in commission of a theft”.  In a separate matter, Smith had voluntarily stepped aside from the ANC last year after appearing in the Bellville Specialised Commercial Crimes Court on allegations of fraud and corruption.  While he maintained his innocence, sources alleged that Smith had looted funds of a Mandela Day celebration during his tenure in the Cederberg Municipality.  ANC head of communications Sifiso Mtsweni said Smith will appear before the provincial leadership to further explain circumstances around the latest arrest.  “We will be summoning him on the latest charge sheet and the provincial leadership will express itself at an appropriate time. Once the ANC itself has exhausted this matter it will pronounce on the way forward on the member,” he said.  Patriotic Alliance deputy provincial leader Sammy Claassen said ANC leaders have “disappointed” South Africans. “This happens on top of the (alleged) multi-million dollar cover up scandal of ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa. This form of greed and the love of money by leaders and men of power has become so severe and destructive that our country is seen as one of the most corrupt countries,” said Claassen.  Cape Times