Cape Town - Up to 100 lightning-related fatalities occur annually in South Africa, and at least four or five times as many survivors of lightning strikes present for clinical treatment, says Professor Ryan Blumenthal of the Faculty of Health Sciences at the University of Pretoria (UP). “As a forensic pathologist, lightning-related deaths make up most of our weather-related fatality cases.” For Prof Blumenthal and his colleagues, these statistics represent the need for an awareness campaign similar to that of National Lightning Safety Awareness Week - 19 to 25 June - in the US, which was initiated in 2001 to call attention to the fact that lightning is an under-rated killer. Since then, lightning fatalities in the US have dropped from about 55 a year to less than 30. A local equivalent would be an opportune time for South Africans to learn more about the fatal consequences of lightning and how to protect themselves and their pets against its effects. At any given moment, about 2000 thunderstorms occur worldwide, producing about 100 lightning strikes each second, or eight million strikes each day. With the exception of incidental catastrophes and disasters, lightning causes more deaths than any other natural event or phenomenon, claiming about 24 000 lives each year. It is estimated that, globally, about 240 000 people a year will survive a lightning strike. “Most of the signs of lightning are located externally on clothing, shoes, jewellery and the belt of the victim,” Prof Blumenthal said. “This becomes important in cases where no clinical history is available. Almost any organ system could be involved in lightning strikes, and prognosis depends on multiple factors. Physical injuries may resolve completely or be associated with long-term effects, including psychological effects for survivors. The four main energy components of lightning – light, heat, electricity and barotrauma (an injury caused by a change in air pressure, typically the ear or lungs) – account for most of the pathology.” Victims of lightning strikes must receive immediate medical assistance. “Clinical management involves diagnosis, initial first aid and triaging,” Prof Blumenthal explained. “All patients should be assessed systematically according to the Advanced Trauma Life Support approach, which includes airway management with C-spine support, breathing and circulation management.” Once stabilised, laboratory tests and radiographic examination should be performed. Treatment involves fluid therapy, cardiovascular therapy, burn treatment, assessing and managing central nervous system injuries, managing eye injuries, ear injuries and assessing foetal viability in pregnant women. Prof Blumenthal stressed that lightning injuries and deaths are entirely preventable if proper precautions are taken during thunderstorms. He offered some protective guidelines: As part of current efforts to raise awareness about lightning safety, between 2 and 7 October 2022, South Africa will play host to the 36th International Conference on Lightning Protection (ICLP), which will be held at the Cape Town International Convention Centre. It will be the first time that the ICLP is hosted on African soil. Prof Blumenthal and his colleagues will be attending the conference, where they plan to put forward their proposition for a National Lightning Safety Awareness Week for South Africa. Cape Times