Cape Town - A vacant coffee shop has been transformed into a vaccination site for the public at the GrandWest Casino and Entertainment World. The vaccination site is open on Wednesdays and Fridays, from 9am until 2pm with operational hours to be extended during the upcoming school holidays. Cold Chain Pharmacist for health services in the Northern and Tygerberg District, Sheriffa Bhorat said through the partnership with GrandWest, healthcare workers aim to make the vaccine more accessible and meet people where they are. “Accessibility plays a key role in the strategy to partner with GrandWest. Being more accessible to the community is what we are striving towards to ensure we give our clients the best opportunities to vaccinate and stay safe so that they can live their best lives.” With the school holidays around the corner, Bhorat has appealed to parents and youth to visit the site for their vaccinations or booster doses. Johnson and Johnson as well as Pfizer vaccines’ primary and booster doses are available. “Our Ruyterwacht vaccination team will be at GrandWest every Wednesday and Friday for the month of June and July. During the School holidays (27 June-15 July 2022) we will be there on Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Fridays. Operating hours are 9am – 2pm. Find our vaccination team between KFC and Wimpy.” General Manager at GrandWest Casino and Entertainment World Mervyn Naidoo, said they were delighted to offer space to the Western Cape Government for a vaccination site. “When we first opened a site in 2021, in partnership with the Department of Health, we were able to offer vaccinations to not only our staff, but also to their families, our concessionaires, and of course, our local communities. The more convenient the location, the more people will take the jab,” Naidoo said. Goodwood resident Cheryl Dreyer, aged 64, received her Pfizer booster dose vaccination at GrandWest. “I heard about the vaccination site from my friend and decided to get my booster here. I think it’s important to get your vaccination and your boosters to protect yourself and your family. If you have children who are aged 12 years and up, bring them along to get their vaccinations too.” Free vaccinations are available in the Northern and Tygerberg district at the sites listed below. No appointments are required. Cape Times