Cape Town - Yet another mob justice incident has added to a “worrying trend” in the province.  Police have launched an investigation after Kraaifontein residents allegedly attacked and killed a man on Saturday, blaming him for a spate of robberies in the community.  The incident occurred on the corner of First Avenue and Lincoln Road in Belmont Park in Kraaifontein. It also happened less than 24 hours after Kraaifontein safety organisations, community and faith leaders marched for peace, and nearly month after the gruesome murder of Dunoon Bolt driver Abongile Mafalala by a mob in Parkwood.  Kraaifontein Community Policing Forum (CPF) chairperson Rob Bisset said they received information about a possible mob justice on Saturday.  “We got word there was a killing on Saturday. We condemn this incident. Let’s let Saps do the investigation and deal with the culprits,” he said.  Police spokesperson Colonel Andrè Traut said no arrests have been made yet.  “It is suspected that the victim was beaten to death by community members who accused him of a crime. The circumstances are being investigated and arrests are yet to be made,” said Traut. Community Safety MEC Reagen Allen said the latest report about yet another alleged mob justice killing pointed to a worrying trend. He noted the 2021/22 Crime Stats which showed in the Western Cape, there were 227 murder cases which were linked to vigilantism/mob justice.  “We understand that there are many communities who are frustrated and might have a deficit of trust in SAPS, but deciding to effect justice by themselves, is just committing another crime. This is unacceptable. The continued increase in the statistics sketches a worrying picture. I will continue to engage SAPS about their efforts to combat these types of crime.” “I’d also like to appeal to community members to not spread any fake/false news about certain individuals without ascertaining the facts. This is one of the most dangerous aspects that ties into vigilantism/mob killings. Let us be responsible and law-abiding citizens that do not make themselves guilty of this type of crime,” said Allen.  Grassy Park community activist Bradley Ruiters said: “Residents of our poorer areas are frustrated, but then when CPF election meetings are held they never arrive to provide their input in fact, when the police come to make arrests, our residents attack SAPS. This lack of ownership is what we urgently need to address. People don’t feel connected to their natural environment, the economy, or community safety structures which are meant to keep them safe.” Cape Times