Cape Town - The killing of police officer Siyakubonga Mphakathi in Philippi was planned, says Police Minister Bheki Cele. He made the comments when he along with police top brass visited the slain officer’s family in Mfuleni on Monday. The 49-year-old Mphakathi attached to the Saps Rapid Rail Unit was driving towards the Philippi railway station when he was shot through a vehicle window by unknown suspects. Cele said the latest crime statistics indicated that 27 police officers were killed in the first three months of this year. “There are things that we do when a member dies on duty. We walk with the family till the last day. We’re told that the funeral will be in Cofimvaba in the Eastern Cape and we would love to be there. “We will continue to find out what happened by getting somebody or people that have caused this trouble. It looks like it was planned and somebody wanted it to happen. It will be good one day to hear what actually happened and why it happened. As long as there are people, crime will never end. Ours is to protect the police so that they do not die on duty. What is very important is that we arrest the suspects and more than 90 percent of people who killed police officers we arrest including the ones who killed our members we will arrest them. The criminals are everywhere but what we need as the community is to work together,” said Cele. Mphakathi’s brother, Sibusiso, said the family wanted nothing but justice and the cause of the incident. “We are very happy with the minister’s visit and it shows that he cares a lot. As a family, we are devastated by what happened to my brother and we did not expect this to happen so soon. The minister made a promise that the suspects will be arrested. They are currently busy with investigations. We want them to be arrested and be taught a lesson by getting serious jail sentences. We have already made funeral arrangements as the family, my brother will be buried in the Eastern Cape,” said Sibusiso. Anyone with information about the incident can anonymously contact Crime Stop on 0860010111 or SMS Crime Line on 32211. Cape Times