Cape Town – The South African Democratic Teachers’ Union (Sadtu) has sent its condolences to the families of the 21 teenagers who died at Enyobeni Tavern in East London. The SAPS has requested parents or relatives to come forward if they have not heard from their child, as one body remains unidentified. Sadtu noted that most of the teenagers who died were younger than 18. “As the nation mourns this tragedy, questions are being asked and a scapegoat is being sought to apportion blame. “We do not want to apportion blame, but someone has got to account. They say it takes a village to raise a child, therefore many have got to account. “The incident is a sad reminder of the appalling conditions our young people live in. “We welcome the closure of this tavern by the Eastern Cape Liquor Board. “We express our deepest condolences to the families of the 21 teenagers. We hope the forensics team that has been brought in to assist, will work around the clock to shed light on what led to these deaths,” Sadtu said. SAPS Eastern Cape spokesperson Brigadier Tembinkosi Kinana said parents whose children have survived the incident but were still not feeling well, were encouraged to visit hospitals and clinics for medical check-ups. “SAPS detectives have been busy at the crime scene since yesterday, as part of the ongoing process of investigation. “Therefore, the SAPS humbly requests that investigators be given sufficient space and time to conclude their investigation. At an appropriate time, a formal pronouncement on the outcome of the investigation will be made available by the relevant authority. “As was reported earlier, the death toll is standing at 21. The latest development now suggests that only one body remains unidentified in the local mortuary, and an appeal is made to parents or relatives who may have not seen their children since the weekend to please make enquiries at the mortuary.” Anyone with information who can shed some light on the incident, can make contact with the Scenery Park police station or call Crime Stop on 08600 10111. This can be done anonymously  Cape Times