Videos by Phando Jikelo Cape Town - More arrests are expected in connection with the gruesome murder of Abongile Mafalala in Parkwood last week. The Bolt driver from Dunoon was allegedly transporting people in the area when he was wrongfully accused of child kidnapping. He was beaten, stabbed and set alight by a mob in the community. Nathan Leeman, Yuven Nawat, Bradley Murphy, Carlton Williams, Ashwin Tifflon, appeared at the Wynberg Magistrate’s Court on Monday for Mafalala’s murder. National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila said they are charged with murder, robbery with aggravating circumstances and malicious damage to property. “Their case was postponed to next Monday for bail information, for the docket to be sent to the DPP office to determine if an advocate will be appointed for the case and for some of the accused to get private attorneys. “The court was advised that more arrests are going to be made,” he said. Angry Dunoon residents, family and friends of Mafalala protested outside court demanding justice. Resident Thobeka Pikini said they were not happy with the process. WATCH: A former friend and colleague of slain Bolt driver Abongile Mafalala, Abongile Pikini says she believes there may have been an element of racism in his brutal murder. She described her friend as a humble man. pic.twitter.com/BN03qhM925 “We are not happy because only six people appeared in court, that is not what we were expecting. “Also, everything said in court was in Afrikaans, which is the language of those arrested, what about the family of Abongile who do not understand the language. This means that justice was not served,” she said. Several Parkwood residents had on Sunday paid their respects and sought forgiveness in the same area Mafalala was killed. Community activist Max Swartz Amansure said they sought for forgiveness because they did not agree with the violence and the anger demonstrated by some members of their community. “Some of us believe that if we were there at that time the incident wouldn’t have transpired. We held the gathering and we prayed with candles on Sunday to show the heartbroken family that we are sincere in expressing our condolences at this time. To also show them that we don’t agree with the violence and the anger that was demonstrated,” he said. Cape Times