Cape Town - The South African National Defence Force (SANDF) has confirmed that Imanuwela David, the man alleged to be the mastermind behind a robbery at President Cyril Ramaphosa's Phala Phala farm was never employed to guard the country's borders. David’s name and employment were mentioned in former Namibian police commissioner Nelius Becker’s report - following a break-in on Ramaphosa's Limpopo farm where millions of US dollars concealed under furniture were stolen, allegedly by a gang of Namibian nationals, and a South African working with the president's domestic worker. In his report, Becker said David allegedly left Namibia and followed his father to South Africa in 2005, where he later enlisted in the SANDF. “He was allegedly working in the Mpumalanga area and guarding borders. He then resigned from the SADF,” the report stated. Meanwhile the South African Revenue Service (Sars) has not been clear about whether it was probing the origin of the funds which were concealed on the farm, or checking if the funds had been declared or not. However, in a statement, the tax regulator denied allegations that  its Commissioner Edward Kieswetter was silent on the matter due to a possible conflict of interest.  “Sars has noted the recent allegation made in the press and social media that the Commissioner for Sars is a director of a company owned by President Ramaphosa. It is insinuated that Sars has therefore remained silent about the tax matters of President Ramaphosa. It is further alleged that the Commissioner received a call from President Ramaphosa to assist and, according to a source, the Commissioner denied the request. Commissioner Kieswetter is not and never was a director of any company owned by Mr Ramaphosa. When he became Commissioner in May 2019, Mr Kieswetter, in keeping with good governance as well as the relevant policies, resigned all his directorships.” The regulator added that confidentiality was the reason why they remained tight-lipped on the Ramaphosa saga. “The guarantee of confidentiality of taxpayer information is what taxpayers get in return for the compulsion to provide full information to Sars. This compact written into law between Sars and taxpayers is the foundation of our tax system, without which Sars cannot function properly. The law is very clear in setting out the conditions under which the Sars Commissioner or any Sars official may disclose taxpayer information. Sars will abide by the law. “The Commissioner did not receive a call from President Ramaphosa, as alleged. Moreover, the Commissioner does not involve himself in or deal with any taxpayer matters personally. Sars wants to reiterate that it continues to exercise its mandate for all tax infringements without fear, favour and prejudice irrespective of the role and status of any taxpayer,” said Sars. The South African Reserve Bank (SARB) has also not been clear about whether or not it was looking into the matter, saying: “It is not the practice of the SARB to comment on or provide any details pertaining to previous, current or potential investigations it may be involved in as part of its mandate”. Political analyst professor Sipho Seepe said Ramaphosa must lead by example and be transparent. “The first thing he (Kieswetter) is correct about is the issue of confidentiality, but he should also be concerned when there are allegations that there's a huge stash of money in foreign currency. He cannot ignore what appears to be a violation of law,” he said. SA1STForum convenor, advocate Rod Solomon added: “The latest allegations re the Sars Commissioner and the President are concerning. The National Director of Public Prosecutions (NDPP) and Parliament must then move with speed to act accordingly.” Additional reporting by Mayibongwe Maqhina Cape Times