Cape Town - A number of frustrated residents in the eastern suburbs of Knysna have called for urgent action over the increase of baboon troops in their suburbs, saying they have become a threat to their livelihoods.  The baboons are aggressive, according to residents, and they enter their homes posing danger to their children and pets.  A frantic resident had reportedly called for help to the area’s WhatsApp group recently,  after the animals invaded her home and completely destroyed it.  “This troop has become too big to live on the outskirts of an urban environment and have become a menace to pets, people and property. For the sake of the baboons, whose fault is not, a solution has to be found,” said one resident.  Knysna Municipality spokesperson Nwabisa Pondoyi said they were aware of baboon problems affecting some residents, adding that they discovered that the troops have increased after the 2017 Knysna fires.  “The baboons abated for a while after the fires, but after that, they came back.  “They are causing problems in the areas. We need to monitor them. They seem to be addicted to human food, and that is keeping them in the areas. “Knysna Municipality appointed monitors to track the baboon movement in these areas. Cape Nature, under whose primary responsibility this resort has assisted in the past by guiding us; we also have a Baboon Management Plan approved by Council. We intend to improve our efforts with Pezula Private Estate to see how we can assist with our monitors to ensure that we deter the baboons from raiding homes,” she said. Another residents however accused some residents of shooting at the animals, causing them to become aggressive. “It inconveniences them to adjust their lives to live with wildlife. I am not surprised baboons are aggressive in that area. They have been shot at by residents over the years. They are not stupid. And why would a kitchen get wrecked if the baboons didn’t have access to the house through a window or door? I know of a recent case where there was a clear photo of the baboon entering the home through an open window.  “It’s not rocket science. It’s the same old miseries who are  complaining. One of the biggest ones moved from my area into that area knowing full well there were challenges with baboons but he still bought a house there and now wants them gone,“ the resident said. Cape Times