Video: Phando Jikelo Cape Town - The heartbroken family of slain Bolt driver Abongile Mafalala said they want justice for his murder after his case was postponed in the Wynberg Magistrate’s Court on Monday. Mafalala was assaulted and set alight by a mob in Parkwood two weeks go.  The 31-year-old was allegedly transporting people in the area when he was wrongfully accused of child kidnapping.  Zharnay Johnson, Antonio Bailey, Ivan Ruiters, Nathan Leeman, Yuven Nawat, Bradley Murphy, Carlton Williams and Ashwin Tifflon were joined by Remano Witbooi, Cheslyn Spanenberg and a 15-year-old minor also charged for his murder.  National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila said they were also charged with robbery with aggravating circumstances and malicious damage to property.  “Their case was postponed until June 23 for an advocate from the DPP office to deal with matter. The minor was released into the care of his guardians,” he said. Speaking outside court on Monday, Mafalala’s younger sister Bulelwa Mafalala said hearing the prosecutor describe how her brother was brutally murdered was heartbreaking.  She said the suspects’ family members also showed no remorse.  Mafalala was peacefully laid to rest in his home of Tsomo in the Eastern Cape over the weekend.  Reverend Oscar Bougardt had prepared his body and donated a casket to the family.  However Bougardt said he had advised the family not to open the casket. “His body was really badly burnt, one part of his face was completely charred and parts of his legs were also burnt. We cleaned the body and placed it in the casket and advised the family not to open the casket because it would have not been good for them to see his body,” he said.  Grassy Park residents also donated R5 500 towards the funeral arrangements.  Grassy Park community activist David Benjamin said they wanted the family to know there were many good people in Parkwood and Grassy Park. “On Friday when the family came to collect Abongile’s spirit we spoke to the uncle and we are planning to meet the family again to give moral support and to ensure that justice is served. We are observing this case very closely and we told him that we are also grieving because we lost a brother through actions done by arrogant people,” he said.  Cape Times