Cape Town - The interfaith vigil held by several remorseful Parkwood residents for slain bolt driver Abongile Mafalala has been met with widespread mixed reaction, with some saying it was not enough. Residents gathered where the 31-year-old was killed in a tearful ceremony seeking forgiveness on Sunday. This follows the gruesome murder of Mafalala who was allegedly transporting people in the area when he was beaten, stabbed and set alight by a mob in Parkwood who accused him of child kidnapping. Five people charged with murder, robbery with aggravating circumstances and malicious damage to property briefly appeared at the Wynberg Magistrate’s Court over the incident on Monday. National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila said the case had been postponed to Monday for bail information and for the docket to be sent to the DPP office to determine if an advocate will be appointed for the case. The postponement will further allow some of the accused to get private attorneys. “The court was advised that more arrests are going to be made,” he said. If the Parkwood community was as outraged as they claim, they would name the perpetrators, said activist Lucille Goliath. “I think it's very unreasonable for the community to ask for forgiveness at this stage. Remorse is certainly a positive step but true remorse comes with accountability. If the community is seriously outraged as they claim they would name the perpetrators. Justice must be served before forgiveness can even be considered by his family,” she said. Cape Coloured Congress leader Fadiel Adams who commended the vigil said they still had questions about what happened. “The narrative changes daily. Were there men in the car with him? If yes, why didn't they call saps? Was he picking up a person? If yes, why hasn't this person come forward and said so? Was he the victim of a robbery? If yes these people must be locked up and the keys must be thrown away. It's confusing, I'll leave it at that,” he said. The family of Mafalala said they were still coming to terms with his death. Dunoon resident Thobeka Pikini said if the Parkwood residents wanted to apologise they would have visited the family in respect. Parkwood councillor Donovan Nelson said by asking for forgiveness, the community was taking a big step in the right direction. “The community of Parkwood asked for forgiveness for what transpired on 31 May 2022. This is a bold step they are taking and one in the right direction,” he said. Parkwood community activist Pastor Paul Phillips said they were  not what they were being portrayed as on social media. “We are a friendly community. People have appeared in court. Those people who have done the deed must account for themselves and we are not going to support them in any way.  As the community we are asking for forgiveness but we must also say we are not the perpetrators. We are standing in the gap for the community. We have had our prayer vigil, we asked for forgiveness and we have tried by all means to convey the message to the family. We also plan to reach out to the family, physically go to their home if we are welcome. We are prepared and we want to do that,” he said. Cape Times