Cape Town - The Tulbagh community in the Cape Winelands have urged police to leave no stone unturned after a bloody weekend where four people were killed in a mass shooting that is suspected to be linked to the taxi industry. At 9pm on Saturday unknown gunmen, who are yet to be arrested, approached a group of nine people, six men and three women, who were socializing at a residence in Jooste Street Tulbach and opened fire. The victims who died in a hail of bullets were four men aged 30, 32, 33, 37 and another person was admitted to a medical facility with wounds. Police have since offered a R100 000 reward for information that could lead to the arrest of the gunmen and initiated a 72 hour activation plan as the motive for the murders and attempted murder is yet to be determined. Police spokesperson Andrè Traut said the Western Cape Serious and Violent Crime Investigation Unit has been assigned to probe the circumstances leading to violent incidents. A 28-year-old resident, who asked not to be named for fear of victimisation, said the incident happened nearby. “We were busy fixing a shack when we heard numerous gunshots going off. We ran inside and later heard that people were actually shot. I’m not sure yet what the motive is,” he said.  According to Community Policing Forum (CPF) member and activist at the Witzenberg Justice Coalition, Winston Pietersen, at this stage the incident is suspected to be taxi- related. “The community has never heard or seen so many people killed in one violent incident like that. Mass shootings are something that we always hear about in other parts of the province and we are hoping it doesn’t become a trend. We are hoping that an arrest will be made soon because we have heard it’s not gang related, but linked to the taxi industry. However, the CPF might get a proper report during our Monday meeting. About three taxi incidents have happened in the past,” said Pietersen. “The major crimes in our communities are housebreaking and theft. This is due to high levels of unemployment and poverty. Most people here are seasonal farm workers and times like these where there is nothing, people get desperate,” he said. Anyone with information about the incident can anonymously contact Brigadier Makhaya Mkabile at 082 222 6744 and Lieutenant Colonel Bonginkosi Libaya at 082 411 2042 who are standing by to take calls. Alternatively contact Crime Stop at 086 0010 111 or SMS Crime Line at 32211. Cape Times