Cape Town opera sensation Lonwabo Mose will showcase his talent as a dramatic baritone to an international audience after being awarded a scholarship to study at the prestigious Saluzzo Opera Academy in Italy. Mose, 22 from Gugulethu auditioned for a company known as South African Opportunity, landing a role in an Opera production. He was advised to audition for the Berlin Opera Academy in Germany after his successful audition,  and it landed him a spot at the Saluzzo Opera Academy. “I feel honoured to have gotten this opportunity, I am hoping to get spotted there and be told there is a place for me to work that side. I am very excited. I cannot wait to be there and experience something outside of South Africa.” “Growing up in Gugulethu was not easy because one has to be tough at a very young age. Whenever I perform at gigs and events I need to take the money back home to my mom to provide. I am hoping to make this a career for myself because I sing full-time and I am taking it very seriously,” said Mose. He developed a love for choral music at a young age and grew into a passion for opera while at Fezeka High School where he sang as a soloist, taking home many prizes. He’s been a member of the Joyful Harmonies Choir since 2016. Mose is studying with renowned vocal coach, composer and founder of the Ubuntu Opera Company, Juan Burgers, who predicts a stellar future for him. He will depart for Italy on June 23  and return on July 22  as he will be taking part in a summer program. Mose’s tuition and accommodation is covered by the bursary while a visitor from the United States who heard him sing during a township tour a few years back, has sponsored his plane ticket. He has managed to raise funds through recitals and sponsorship to cover other expenses but is still short of R15 000 for his daily expenses such as meals which are not covered by his scholarship. Mose will be hosting two fundraising concerts before he sets off to Italy on Sunday June 12 at 3pm at The Innocent Spirits Distillery, 7th Avenue Maitland, and on June 16 at 3pm at the JL Zwane Church in Gugulethu (safe parking provided). Anyone wishing to assist can contact him on 082 860 0402. Cape Times