Cape Town-  With authorities on high alert following threats of a national shutdown on Friday, Golden Arrow and the Cape Organisation for the Democratic Taxi Association (Codeta) say they will be operating according to their usual schedules. This comes after messages and posters circulated on various social media platforms calling for a national shutdown over a fuel price increase. Police spokesperson Colonel Athlenda Mathe said a National Joint Operational and Intelligence Structure (Natjoints) is monitoring the situation closely. “Those behind these messages are warned and reminded that prohibiting people's freedom of movement is a criminal offence. Members of the public are therefore cautioned against spreading such messages that seek to mobilise communities to respond to the shutdown. The natjoints is calling on all people in South Africa to work together with law enforcement authorities to uphold and enforce the law. Any action aimed at contravening the law will be dealt with accordingly within the ambit of the law,” Mathe said. Codeta spokesperson Andile Khanyi refuted reports that the taxi industry was at the forefront of the national shutdown. “We heard about the national shutdown, but where we are as a taxi industry, we do not have a strike tomorrow. There is a video that is circulating about this shutdown, but we do not have such a strike on our side, and it will be business as usual,” Khanyi said. Golden Arrow bus service said they had been receiving queries from worried passengers about the possible shutdown. “Golden Arrow will not be participating in any planned shutdown as our passengers rely on us to get to work and school, and as such, we intend to operate our regular scheduled services. We will, however, monitor the situation closely,” they said. City of Cape Town mayco member for safety and security JP Smith said they would work together with the police should any threat present itself. "The City will do everything in its power to support policing efforts should the need arise. However, we call on the national government to address national concerns of exorbitantly inflated fuel prices that have a direct impact on our communities' livelihoods and ability to feed their families." Cape Times