Cape Towns iconic Table Mountain needs your help in defending its crown as Africa’s Leading Tourist Attraction at the prestigious World Travel Awards. The nominations for this year’s annual awards have just been announced, and Table Mountain can make it four in a row if it wins again. “The World Travel Awards is the gold standard in the travel world and acknowledges service excellence and responsible operators each year,” said Wahida Parker, managing director for the Table Mountain Aerial Cableway Company (TMACC). Table Mountain was voted “Africa’s Leading Tourist Attraction” in 2019, 2020 and last year (2021). It has again been nominated in this category for the 2022 edition of the awards where it will face hometown competition from Robben Island and the V&A Waterfront. The international challengers for the title come from Lake Malawi, Mount Kilimanjaro, the Ngorongoro Crater, Okavango Delta, and the Pyramids of Giza. Parker said the Table Mountain Aerial Cableway has also earned itself a nomination, in the “Africa’s Responsible Tourism Award” category. “This nomination is an honour for my team who have worked hard to ensure that we give our local and international visitors an unforgettable experience while at the same time protecting and preserving the rich natural heritage within which we operate.” The World Travel Awards, she added, played an important role for international and local tourism efforts. It promotes and celebrates industry members who have shown resilience and commitment during very tough economic times and who have overcome the challenges that they have faced. The fact that the Mother City has earned most of the nominations in the “Leading Tourist Attraction” category is also a message to the world that Cape Town is open for business, and ready to receive tourists from home and abroad. “We need the public to help us keep these accolades in South Africa where they belong. It would be an enormous thrill if Table Mountain were to be chosen as the continent’s leading tourist attraction for the fourth year in a row. We are appealing to everyone to help us win,” says Parker. Public voting for the Africa section of the annual World Travel Awards opened on May 23 and winners will be announced later this year.  Votes cast by industry stakeholders are given double the weight of public votes. Votes can be cast at https://www.worldtravelawards.com/vote Cape Times