Cape Town – Two Western Cape contestants, Luvé Meyer of Brackenfell and Tamsyn Jack of Somerset West, have made the top 10 for Miss South Africa 2022. The other finalists are Anarzade Omar, Ayanda Thabethe, Itumeleng Parage, Keaoleboga Nkashe, Lebogang Mahlangu, Luyanda Zuma, Ndavi Nokeri and Pearl Ntshehi. The contestants represent five provinces – Gauteng has four finalists, two from Tshwane and one each from Soweto and Crown Gardens, KZN and Western Cape each have two finalists and Limpopo and North West one finalist each. Among the group are a candidate attorney; students studying law, performing arts and dietetics; a psychology honours graduate; entrepreneurs and small business owners and models. The winner of the People’s Vote was Limpopo’s Ndavi Nokeri who works in asset management. Twenty-five-year-old Jack, of Somerset West, is an entrepreneur working with some of South Africa’s leading start-ups and small businesses. She graduated with a food science degree from the University of Stellenbosch. “I am over the moon and grateful to be on this journey. I have always been a fan of Miss South Africa but only when I got engaged last year did I realise that I didn’t want to start this new phase of my life without entering into the pageant. I am at my happiest when I am serving others and this is an incredible leadership platform to do just that. I am looking forward to the finale and, although I don’t know exactly what to expect, I just want to stay true to myself and be authentic.” Meyer, also 25, has a Bachelor of Health Science and Social Services degree and an honours degree in psychology from Unisa and is a full-time model and small business co-owner. Meyer made it to the top 35 in 2020. “I was truly shocked when my name was announced as a top 10 finalist this year. It was a validation of entering again. I always knew I would regret it if I didn’t try once more. I have grown so much as a person and have so much more confidence. Saying that, the calibre of contestants this year was impressive, all of them deserved to have made top 30 this year and anyone of them could have been a finalist. I am going to enjoy every minute of this journey and take in every moment as well as celebrate this accomplishment.” The Miss South Africa pageant is back in Gauteng this year with the 2022 winner set to be crowned at Sun International’s flagship venue, the SunBet Arena at Time Square, Pretoria, on Saturday, August 13. This year’s Top 10 judges were radio presenter and personality and Miss South Africa 2015 Liesl Laurie, body positive activist Tracey-Lee Lusty Horwitz, Dentsu CEO Koo Govender, fashion designer Khosi Nkosi, True Love editor-in-chief, Makhosazana Zwane-Siguqa, actor Simoné Nortmann and actor and TV personality Thando Thabethe. Cape Times