Cape Town - The ANC in the province has served the party’s MPL Danville Smith with a letter informing him that he will be replaced as a member of the provincial legislature following his latest arrest last week.  Smith was charged for theft of motor vehicles and fraud along with two foreign nationals.  He was released on R10 000 bail after a brief appearance in the Vredendal Magistrate's Court.  The arrests came after police were tipped off about an alleged modus operandi of theft of motor vehicles.  National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila said Smith and his co-accused are accused of pretending that they had transferred R210 000 as payment for a vehicle advertised on Gumtree, although no money was transferred to the complainant in order for the vehicle to be handed over. “Smith was granted R10 000 bail with conditions that he must surrender his passport to the investigating officer and inform the Clerk of the Court; not apply for any travel document; and report to Malmesbury Police Station every Monday and Friday between 8am and 8pm.  “For the duration of the case, he must inform the investigating officer should he want to leave the Western Cape,” he said.  Ntabazalila said the matter was postponed to June 14 for a Shona interpreter and to determine addresses and status verification for accused 1 and 2. Western Cape ANC convener, Lerumo Kalako confirmed Smith will be replaced. Smith is also set to face the ANC provincial leadership to further explain circumstances around the latest arrest. Smith’s legal representative André Johnston confirmed they have received a letter from the ANC, however said it was “tardy and vague”.  “It seems no due process was followed in reaching  this decision. Most likely we will approach the Western Cape High Court for urgent relief pending instructions from Mr Smith. I don’t agree with the reasoning advanced for Smith’s suspension especially since I believe the evidence in the Vredendal matter is purely circumstantial against Smith,” he said.  Johnston told the Cape Times last week that Smith had denied any wrongdoing in the matter and had merely “provided a lift to people who were involved in commission of a theft”. Smith had voluntarily stepped aside from the ANC last year in a separate matter, after appearing in the Bellville Specialised Commercial Crimes Court on allegations of fraud and corruption. Cape Times