Cape Town - Under-fire provincial deputy speaker, Beverley Schäfer has maintained her innocence despite an independent investigation report finding her guilty of fruitful and wasteful expenditure. Schäfer was hauled before the legislature’s conduct committee following complaints that she refused to downgrade her luxury state-funded BMW after her six-month stint as MEC ended. Instead of taking action against her, the DA has set its sights on having Schäfer’s boss, speaker Masizole Mnqasela charged by the Hawks after providing documents purporting to implicate him in wrongdoing. Opposition parties criticised the DA for being “slow to act” on the report, charging the party was treating complaints against Schäfer differently from those of Mnqasela, who the party accused of fraud. The matter against Schäfer  was referred to the Conduct Committee by Mnqasela to investigate a possible breach of code of conduct. An investigation had found that the use of the BMW X5 by Schäfer for the period July 1 to December 6, 2019, indeed resulted in fruitless and wasteful expenditure amounting to R158 297.86. No decision has been made to recover the money. Schäfer’s spokesperson Natalie Jardine said the report did not follow the “correct process”. She said two previous inquiries into the matter did not find Schäfer guilty. “The investigation into alleged wasteful expenditure has been extensive as this legal opinion attached to the report is one of three legal opinions on the matter since 2020. The first legal opinion was conducted by the same advocate who initially could not pin blame on Schäfer, while the second opinion was conducted by a team of senior legal counsel who also did not find blame of the use of the 2016 BMW X5 model by the Deputy Speaker,” she said. All motor vehicle usages were signed off by the Secretary of Parliament, and upon notification that no further trips would be signed Schäfer had returned the vehicle, said Jardine. “Why has the issue only surfaced in 2022, at a time when the Speaker, Mr Masizole Mnqasela, finds himself in the spotlight over a series of allegations around misuse of public funds and failing to declare his family trust in his annual declarations?” she said. DA Provincial Leader Tertuis Simmers said the due processes of the provincial legislature must conclude on the matter. “We reserve comment until the indicated due process has been concluded and I will advise the media to await this formal process to be completed before seeking any comments or reactions from any political party. “The matter before the Conduct Committee  was the route selected by the plaintiff and as such the DA respectfully awaits its outcome. The party complaint route, as selected by the plaintiff(s), in terms of the allegations against the speaker thus must also be respected. The process a plaintiff chooses to seek recourse for their allegations has therefore got nothing to do with race, but the plaintiff’s freedom to choose a process,” he said. Cape Times