Cape Town - Three suspects have been nabbed for crimes associated with gangs over the weekend.  The arrested suspects, found in possession of firearms and ammunition, will appear in court once charged.  This as SAPS endeavours to fight the scourge of gangsterism and crimes associated with gangs are proving to be successful, said police spokesperson Frederick van Wyk. “Intelligence was received by members of the Anti-Gang Unit that an illegal firearm was hidden at premises in Wals Lane, Cafda Village. The information was followed up on Sunday morning and a search of the premises resulted in the discovery of two firearms - a .38 Special revolver and CZ83 Browning pistol and ammunition. A 29-year-old suspect was arrested for possession of an unlicensed firearm and illegal possession of ammunition,” said Van Wyk. Another arrest was made shortly after as SAPS conducted further tracing operations and proceeded to a premises in Sonata Crescent, Steenberg, where a 29-year-old suspect was arrested on a charge of murder. “The murder was committed in the Steenberg area during January 2022. Both suspects are affiliated to a gang grouping in the Steenberg area. They are due to appear in the Wynberg Magistrate’s Court once charged,” said Van Wyk. In an unrelated matter on Saturday at about 6.50am, SAPS members traced and arrested a suspect in Coronation Road, Heinz Park. “After interrogation the suspect took members to the yard where he dug up the .38 revolver wrapped in a blue plastic bag with five rounds. The 35-year-old suspect was arrested for possession of an unlicensed firearm and ammunition and will appear in the Athlone Magistrate’s court on Monday on the mentioned charges. The exhibits were handed in at Samora Machel.  The case will be investigated by the Anti Gang Unit as the firearm might have been used in one of their murder cases. The serial number of the firearm must still be tested,” said Van Wyk. Also on Saturday at about 6.20pm, Elsies River SAPS reservists were on duty and attending to a complaint when they heard heavy gunfire while driving in Forest Drive. “They saw a person running into a premises in Forest Drive and it looked like he had an object in his hand. This person, after entering the premises, immediately came out again and walked across the street disappearing between the houses. “The members went inside the house to the back and went through the side door next to the house. They found a 9mm Browning pistol with two rounds of ammunition lying in front of a wendy house and confiscated it. The firearm was handled with gloves and tested. The members saw that it had a serial number on and ownership established that it belonged to a person in Athlone. The firearm was not reported as stolen,” said Van Wyk. Anyone with information on crime can anonymously contact Crime Stop at 086 0010 111 or SMS Crime Line at 32211. Cape Times