Cape Town - Stage 6 load shedding will continue from 4pm until 10pm on Wednesday, Eskom announced. Stage 4 load shedding will then be implemented at 10pm to midnight. "Load shedding will  be reduced to Stage 2 until 5am on Thursday morning. "From 5am until midnight on Thursday, load shedding will be implemented at Stage 4. "Stage 2 load shedding will be implemented from midnight until 5am on Friday morning. "Eskom continues to closely monitor the system and will implement any changes as may be necessary." The power utility said that while workers have started reporting for duty at the power stations, there is still a high level of absenteeism. As a result of the unlawful strike, routine maintenance work has had to be postponed. "This backlog will take days to weeks to clear. It is, therefore, important to note that the system will remain constrained and vulnerable to additional breakdowns while recovery activities are in progress. "Due to the unlawful and unprotected labour action, which has caused widespread disruption to Eskom’s power plants, Eskom is unable to return some generators to service.  "This has compelled Eskom to continue taking precautionary measures to conserve emergency generation capacity and safeguard plants from damage. There remains a risk that the stage of load shedding may have to change at any time, depending on the state of the plant." Currently, 3 161MW is under planned maintenance, while another 17 395MW of capacity is unavailable due to breakdowns. "Eskom would also like to pay tribute and thank those many employees who keep going beyond the call of duty and continue to help keep the lights on during this very challenging time. Eskom would like to take this opportunity to thank our municipal partners who tirelessly implement the load shedding according to schedule. “We also wish to thank the members of the SA Police Services who continue to play a key role in ensuring that disruptions of law and order were minimised at power stations during the strike. Eskom continues to closely monitor the system, adjust and communicate any changes as may be necessary. We appeal to all South Africans to help limit the impact of the shortages by continuing to reduce the usage of electricity and to switch off all non-essential items. “We would like to remind the public that load shedding is implemented only as a last resort to protect the national grid. We, therefore, urge all South Africans to continue using electricity sparingly, especially during these uncertain times on the power system." Cape Times