Cape Town - Local Government MEC Anton Bredell has congratulated the newly elected Beaufort West mayor Thershia Prince, adding that she is taking over the municipality during a challenging time. Prince was sworn in as executive mayor at a special council meeting on Monday. She is replacing Gideon Pietersen, who resigned recently and is expected to take over Prince’s previous position as deputy mayor in the Central Karoo District Municipality. Municipality speaker Noel Constable said they hope Prince will restore hope to the people of Beaufort West. “I want to congratulate our new executive mayor Thershia Prince on her election. We hope that her election will bring much hope to the residents of Beaufort West, Murraysburg, Merweville and Nelspoort. A new era is here. She is the youngest female mayor in the history of Beaufort West,” said Constable. Prince, who is also the wife of former Beaufort West mayor Truman Prince, said she was extremely honoured and humbled during her inauguration speech on Monday. “I want to assure the citizens of Beaufort West, we will be a government for every single citizen regardless of your vote. We will serve the citizenry with dignity and respect,” she said. A strong united force with the same vision and direction, and bringing dignified service delivery, are among the changes she hopes to achieve in the municipality. Bredell urged Prince to note the financial recovery plan (FRP) being implemented at the municipality. Bredell’s spokesperson Wouter Kriel said: “Minister Bredell wishes mayor Prince all the best, noting that she is taking over in Beaufort West Municipality during a challenging time. The minister points to the financial recovery plan currently being implemented at the municipality and asks the mayor to keep implementing it as agreed between the National Treasury, provincial government and the Beaufort West Municipality.” Community activist Brian Jooste said Prince will need to work hard to turn around the “ill decisions” made by the previous mayor. “It’s not easy making decisions under the mandatory financial recovery plan. All the mistakes the previous mayor (made) will fall on her.” Cape Times