Cape Town - The Western Cape Education Department (WCED) has refuted claims that the Bloekombos Secondary School community in Kraaifontein was forced to welcome a new acting principal on Monday. The department had dismissed principal Ntombi Goniwe following charges of misconduct. The school has been faced with multiple challenges including feuds between the School Governing body (SGB) and Goniwe who accused each other of  financial mismanagement, tender-corruption allegations and counter-allegations. Last year Goniwe was under police protection following death threats and  allegedly being followed by a car. The WCED also had to request police to provide routine patrols for her safety and security. “The dismissal came as a shock to us as the SGB. The department did not only fail to formally engage with us about the matter but also the parents. We were informed over the weekend by the school secretary and told to just be ready on Monday to accept a new school principal. “I am looking forward to hearing about this misconduct sanction because  I recall it is principal Goniwe who has been trying hard over the months to persuade the former education MEC Debbie Schäfer to visit the school and intervene. Her life was also in danger because she exposed the corruption of some SGB members,” said SGB member Linda Phito. He claimed the only allegations that were made against the Goniwe were related to finances but this was also not explained. Phito said he recognised that Goniwe had been absent for about three weeks and assumed she might be on sick leave. “When I contacted her last week she revealed that she was dismissed and is hoping to challenge her dismissal.” Phito said a meeting was expected to be held late in the afternoon to engage with the new principal. Attempts to reach Goniwe were unsuccessful by deadline. WCED spokesperson Bronagh Hammond said the SGB, Senior Management Team (SMT) and staff of Bloekombos were informed in May that Goniwe was dismissed. “The educator was charged with misconduct. The educator appealed to the Provincial (MEC), and the appeal was dismissed on May 12, 2022. All the relevant roleplayers were duly noted. On Monday the curator principal was introduced and was welcomed warmly by the staff, SMT and the SGB,” said Hammond. Cape Times