TWO young SA scientists have captivated judges with their research at the 2022 Global Youth Science and Technology Bowl (GYSTB) Science Fair held in Hong Kong, each bagging awards in their respective categories. The GYSTB is an online international student science project competition in biology, chemistry, physics and engineering in Hong Kong. The competition ran from June 10-12, showcasing global youth scientific achievement and innovation, which aims to promote science and technology. Jaco Jacobs, a 17-year-old Grade 12 learner at Outeniqua Hoërskool in the Western Cape’s Eden Karoo region, received a gold award in the physics and engineering category. Jaco investigated automated inflation and pressure regulation for recreational and professional cyclists. “I feel very excited to have won the award. It has been a long journey, and I am very happy that I have made it this far,” Jaco said. “It was very interesting and challenging to participate in the GYSTB, especially as it is a global event. I enjoyed the process of getting ready for expo, as well as all the challenges on the way. I definitely enjoyed meeting and seeing people from around the world and learning from them, as well as to hear about their projects and ideas,” he added. Nicolaas Moolman, an 18-year-old Grade 12 learner at Hoërskool Volksrust in Mpumalanga’s Gert Sibande region, was awarded the second prize in the biochemistry and chemistry category. Moolman’s research addressed both food shortages and the control of alien plants. He investigated whether invasive plants could be used to prevent microbial spoilage of fresh food products. “I am grateful to have been awarded the second prize in my category. I am very fortunate to have had the opportunity to participate and be rewarded for all the hard work,” said Moolman. “The GYSTB was a fantastic science fair. I enjoyed every bit of it. The fair was very well organised and definitely an event that I will remember. What I enjoyed most about the GYSTB was the project exchange, during which we had time to meet other participants and talk about our projects on the Gather platform. I enjoyed looking at what other participants did in their projects, and learnt some new concepts and approaches to solve new problems,” he added. Eskom Development Foundation chief executive officer Cecil Ramonotsi said: “We remain committed to investing in science, technology, engineering, mathematics and innovation (STEMI), particularly for the young people of South Africa. The Eskom Expo for Young Scientists is one of the many vehicles under the Eskom Development Foundation that enables us to do this, and we are proud to have made a meaningful contribution to this programme.” Registration to take part in the 2022 Eskom Expo is open. Learners in grades 4 to 12, along with learners from Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) colleges that are in NC2 to NC4, can register and upload their own research projects by clicking the link: http://bit.ly/3dVnTGH. To access resources and easy-to-use templates, click here: https://bit.ly/3ctUuik. Cape Times