Cape Town – Commuters have shared their mixed reactions to the increase in taxi fares for both local and long-distance rides. The increase in local taxi fares came into effect on June 15 and the increase in long-distance trips will start on July 1. Commuters will pay R1 000 and more to travel to the Eastern Cape. Commuter Bandile Bam said he did not blame the taxi industry for increasing its prices. “Everything is going up but our salaries are still the same, and that will make us think twice before going to the Eastern Cape. “It’s reasons like these that make people not go back to Eastern Cape again. “I always use a taxi when going to and from the Eastern Cape because it’s fast, unlike buses. “Taking a flight is a bit expensive and you must remember that we always travel with families every holiday. I cannot blame the taxi industry for increasing their prices because most of them lost a lot during the Covid-19 pandemic, and some of them had to stay home and do nothing. The prices have not increased that much,” said Bam. Nosipho Gqokoma said people have to increase their efforts to save money before travelling. “Taxi fare increases are hitting on our pockets hard, the number of people who will be travelling during the holidays will decrease. Local and long-distance fares have increased and that means one will have to save or budget a lot of money when travelling. The petrol and taxi fare increases will affect many things including the tourism industry. People will not travel like they used to do,” said Gqokoma Congress for Democratic Taxi Associations (Codeta) spokesperson Andile Soyama said the increase in the taxi fare was discussed between themselves and the Cape Amalgamated Taxi Association (Cata). “We indeed have increased prices due to the country’s current economic situation. The last time we increased taxi fare was three years ago, if I am not mistaken and we had no choice. “We have communicated with our people and they are aware of this, we have consulted other stakeholders before we took this decision. “Many things have increased, including petrol. Remember that the taxi industry suffered the most during the Covid-19 pandemic, many taxis were repossessed because the owners could not afford to pay instalments and that has affected us. We thought things will get back to normal but it seems things are getting worse,” said Soyama. Cape Times