Cape Town - The mysterious death of seven-year-old Eljay Wallen Meyer has ripped at the community of Witteklip in Vredenburg after his lifeless body was found in an area he had not frequented. The pupil at Eden Primary School, Eljay had gone missing on Sunday afternoon after he had been playing with friends and allegedly wandered off with two boys. Speaking to the Cape Times on Thursday, Eljay’s aunt, Anne-Maré Mentoor, said they were “deeply saddened” by his sudden and senseless death. “He went missing on Sunday afternoon after he spent the night at family friends close to our home after attending a funeral on Saturday.  “He was last seen playing near the Weskus TVET College when my son had asked him when he will be going home and Eljay said he was still playing, but would go home soon. “His friend said they had gone to an area where they had played and made clay, but thereafter, Eljay had left with the two other friends. “We still do not know who these friends are and it is very strange why he would leave with these boys as he isn’t one to wander on his own. “His grandmother is very protective of him, so he would either just walk with her or his parents,” said Mentoor. According to Mentoor, Eljay’s father had come to her home in search of his son but was told that he wasn’t there. “There are so many reports and rumours doing the rounds that it feels we as family are sitting with an exposed wound and the words of people are digging like spades into that wound. It hurts so very much to know that your child was with you and no longer is,” said Mentoor. Ward councillor Leonard Mitchell said the death has rocked their community but has also united them. “The community feels it with the parents and will be supporting them all the way. “A night vigil was recently held and another one is planned for later this week. This death has been heartbreaking and we commit to supporting the family,” said Mitchell. Police spokesperson, Wesley Twigg, confirmed Eljay was reported missing. “An inquest was registered for investigation and a post-mortem will be conducted to determine the cause of death,” said Twigg. Cape Times