Cape Town - Properties were damaged due to flooded roadways and blocked drains in Kleinvlei, Ravensmead, Goodwood, Strand, Riverside, Bonteheuwel, Belhar, Maitland and Bellville South on Tuesday, while an animal hospital was also affected by flooding in Kaapzicht. The City’s Road Infrastructure Management Department was also sent to clear roadways and unblock drains in informal settlements affected in Delft, Khayelitsha, Nomzamo, Crossroads, Philippi, Gugulethu and Nyanga. By midday weather-related power outages were experienced across the city. “During the last 24-hour measuring period, rainfall stations in the Cape Metropole recorded between 34 and 123mm of rain in a short period which severely tested the capacity of the storm-water systems,” the City’s Disaster Management Service said. “At this stage there are no life-threatening situations, only damage to properties,” the City said. Cape Town Traffic Services said it was working to mitigate risks caused by the extensive rainfall since Sunday. “We are receiving reports of obstructions caused by localised flooding. There are a considerable number of roads and private properties affected by the rainfall. “Our services have not been limited to traffic enforcement. Our traffic officials have been assisting with road closures for flooded roads, uprooted trees obstructing roadways, defective traffic lights, and our tow trucks have been extricating motorists stuck in flooded areas. “We have responded to a number of minor motor vehicle crashes. Fortunately, no serious collisions or fatalities have been reported,” City Traffic said. Residents have been cautioned against sharing videos of apparent flooding in the metro, the City said, as several of them were found to be hoaxes. “As emergency relief resources are carefully co-ordinated through DRM (Disaster Risk Management) at this time, we appeal to the public to please refrain from sharing unsubstantiated reports or videos,” the City said. Meanwhile, Garden Route firefighters who battled the wildfire in the early hours of Tuesday managed to contain the blaze. “Firefighters from the Garden Route District Municipality, Knysna Municipality and SANParks formed part of the efforts throughout the night and will also keep a watch out for flare-ups.” Cape Times