CAPE TOWN - Nearly 100 babies have been abandoned in the last nine months, says the Western Cape Department of Social Development. As recently as a week ago, the body of a newborn baby was found wrapped in a black plastic bag, dumped opposite the Deeds office in the city centre. Police are investigating a concealment of the birth case. Social Development MEC Sharna Fernandez has reminded the public that child abandonment is a crime. Her warning comes in the wake of a noticeable rise of reports of babies being dumped. Between April 2019 and March 2020 about 46 were reported to have been dumped, 24 between April 2020 and March 2021, and 26 last year between April and December, said Fernandez. “We understand that often the circumstances which lead to mothers dumping their babies can be complex. However, it is illegal. We appeal to all expectant mothers who are unable to take care of their babies to seek assistance either at any clinic, or to approach their nearest Department of Social Development local office or a Child Designated Non-Profit Organisation to speak to a social worker who may be able to assist with information about options suitable to the individual’s circumstances,” said Fernandez. She urged the public to sign up as safety parents due to the increased need for child protection services. Little Hands Baby Home, a new safe haven for abandoned, orphaned and neglected babies based in Woodstock said it has accommodated about eight babies and receives calls to take in a child every week. Founder Genevieve Bootcov, a former night nurse, launched the safe home 12 months ago. She said the limited capacity only allowed them to accommodate four babies at a time. “If we could get funding then we could try to expand and extend our services. I noticed the problem is a lot during the summer season. We received daily calls from hospitals to check if I have space. Most of the babies come from Khayelitsha and Mitchells Plain. So we can imagine the pressure safe havens in those areas might be facing because they hardly receive babies from here in Woodstock,” said Bootcov. Children’s Commissioner Christina Nomdo said it was regrettable when new moms find themselves unsupported to care for their new babies, leading to them taking drastic steps. “It is the role of the child protection system to step in with measures to support the baby and the mom. The Department of Social Development confirmed to me they do fund organisations delivering these services and their local offices can also be contacted. “The commissioner’s role is therefore to understand whether these services are of good quality and sufficient to address the needs in our society. To this end, the commissioner visits service provision organisations,” said Nomdo. Cape Times