CAPE TOWN - The George municipality says it has done everything in its power to prevent a recurrence of the improper conduct and maladministration found by Public Protector advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane following the irregular investment of public funds with Old Mutual Limited. Mkhwebane on Monday said a probe had found in favour of GOOD Party leader Patricia de Lille that the R350 million invested by the George Municipality with Old Mutual was irregular. De Lille lodged a complaint regarding allegations of improper conduct and maladministration by the municipality in 2019. The investment was made with Old Mutual more than four years ago by George DA councillor Stag Cronjé, when his son was employed as an agent for the institution’s broker distribution. An Old Mutual spokesperson had said they ceased managing the investments in question in early 2018, and returned “all investments in full to the municipality”. While Cronjé on Tuesday lashed out at Mkhwebane and the Cape Times and denied the findings, acting municipal manager Michele Gratz confirmed that as per the public protector’s report, municipal funds were irregularly invested by a senior municipal official during 2017/2018 in terms of the processes followed, which did not follow legislative requirements as set out by the Municipal Finance Management Act of 2000 and the Municipal Investment Regulations regarding the investment of funds. “The council and administration has done everything in its power to prevent a recurrence of this very unfortunate incident under the previous municipal manager and mayor. Remedial steps commenced in 2019 and were completed in 2021 which were most in line with those indicated by the public protector.” Mayor Leon van Wyk said the audit committee has been reconstituted and is operating efficiently. Council also sanctioned the councillor concerned, the municipality said. Gratz emphasised that all officials involved in this irregular investment process were disciplined and the then-chief financial officer was dismissed. “A report on any additional remedial matters will be included in a report to the council in May 2022.” Cronjé, however, said Local Government MEC Anton Bredell exonerated him in June 2021 and the finding was confirmed by DA legal adviser advocate Koos le Roux in September 2021. “It is important to note that the minister’s exoneration relates to the original charges brought against me – criminal offence in connection with George Municipal funds invested with Old Mutual. From this outrageous original accusation flowed a charge of transgressing the Code of Conduct for Councillors, and the minister’s finding clears me on all charges conjured, caballed, and conspired.” This finding is in addition to the NPA declining to prosecute, he added. “The minister’s finding does me no more than justice and confirms that all the wrongful accusations in this unjust affair are ab initio null and void – I should never have been charged at all. “I have today launched a campaign to recover my substantial cost in consequence of false accusations and wrongful procedures.” Cape Times