CAPE TOWN - The ANC in the Western Cape legislature has expressed concerns that nearly 3000 children still need to be processed through the backlogged foster care system in the province. Social Development MEC Sharna Fernandez revealed in a written response to a question by Standing Committee on Social Development chairperson Gillion Bosman that the number of outstanding foster care orders requiring extension was 2 930 as a result of the foster-care backlog. This was asked in reference to the department’s strategic focus over the short- to medium-term period in the 2020/21 annual report and the implementation of the provincial foster care management plan. According to Fernandez, the main causes of the unprocessed extensions included social workers having high caseloads due to increasing population numbers without more funds to increase the number of social workers employed. “Amendments to the Children’s Act and Social Assistance Act will assist with this since around 65% of foster care cases are family placements that do not need full children’s court inquiries, and are mostly done in order to secure foster care grants. “In terms of the amended legislation, a new system of ‘child support top-up grants’ will enable family members caring for children other than their biological children, but where the child/ren in question is/are not at risk, to access the funds they need without foster care orders from children’s courts. The passage of the Children’s Amendment Bill through parliament has, however, faced repeated delays,” she said. Fernandez added that 36 480 children in the province were in foster care. “The target is to clear the foster care backlog prior to November 12, 2022. Western Cape social development efforts to eradicate the foster care backlog largely depend on all its stakeholders' support, commitment, and accountability in the foster care management process.” ANC's provincial spokesperson on social development Gladys Bakubaku-Vos said she was concerned clearing up the backlog may take up to November. “Here we are talking of the most vulnerable children in need of care and protection. The provincial Social Development department has been struggling with foster care cases for a number of years and the Covid-19 pandemic may have worsened the situation. “We call on the MEC to put measures in place to accelerate the process of eradicating the backlog. We also calling on the national government to urgently intervene to assist vulnerable children in need of foster care in the province,” she said. Bosman said he believed the department was working hard to clear the backlog. “We are satisfied that the Provincial Forster Care Management Plan is detailed and doable.” Cape Times