CAPE TOWN - Calls have been made for the DA to take strong action against a councillor implicated in the irregular investment of R350 million of public funds by the George Municipality with Old Mutual. Public Protector advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane at a briefing in Pretoria on Monday, said a probe had found in favour of GOOD party leader Patricia de Lille that the R350m invested by the George Municipality with Old Mutual was irregular. De Lille lodged a complaint in her capacity as the party’s leader regarding allegations of improper conduct and maladministration by the municipality in 2019. The investment was made with Old Mutual more than four years ago by George DA councillor Stag Cronjé, when his son was employed as an agent for the institution’s broker distribution. The choice of the financial institution came under scrutiny as Cronjé’s son allegedly benefited after he received commission for facilitating the deal. An Old Mutual spokesperson had said they ceased managing the investments in question in early 2018, and returned “all investments in full to the municipality”. Mkhwebane said they found that the municipality did invest municipal funds with Old Mutual irregularly. “The investments were in violation of section 13(1) of the Local Government: Municipal Finance Management Act (MFMA), the Municipal Investment Regulations and the Cash and Investment Policy of the Municipality. “The conduct of the municipality accordingly constitutes improper conduct as envisaged in the Constitution and maladministration in terms of the Public Protector Act. The conduct of the officials and the councillor involved were also not in accordance with the standard of ethics and diligence contemplated in section 195 of the Constitution,” said Mkhwebane. She said remedial action that must be taken by the municipal manager included disciplinary action against implicated municipal officials within 60 working days from the date of the report, and identify what the main deficiencies in regard to the municipality’s investment policy and its internal financial controls were, and then take steps to address them within 90 working days. They must report to the council on the implementation of the remedial action referred to within 120 working days from the date of this report, and submit a copy of the report to the Office of the Public Protector. Municipal spokesperson Chantèl Edwards said the municipality has not formally received the final findings from the Public Protector. “The municipality will review the findings of this matter, which dates back to 2017/ 2018 and thereafter issue a statement,” she said. ANC chief whip in the George municipality Jacques Esau said the ANC caucus in the municipality welcomed the report and findings. GOOD Party secretary-general Brett Herron called for the DA to explain whether it benefited from a commission earned on the investment, alleging it was an explanation for failing to act against Cronjé. Herron said this was despite the evidence that they had provided directly to the DA’s chairperson of its federal council, Helen Zille, and former DA provincial chairperson and MEC for local government, Anton Bredell. “When a party claims to have zero-tolerance for corruption and maladministration, it should take internal disciplinary steps against its member who orchestrated and whose family benefited directly from the irregular transaction. “Even when the George Council’s disciplinary committee eventually dealt with the complaint, they found Cronjé guilty and recommended that he be dismissed from the council. Cronjé appealed to Bredell who saved his job and changed the sanction for his part in this corrupt transaction,” said Herron. He questioned why the party would go to “extraordinary lengths” to protect the councillor. South African Communist Party (SACP) Southern Cape secretary Langa Langa said: “We take note of the remedial actions as contained in the report however, considering the fact that this report again reaffirms our call for an independent internal audit committee, we have serious reservations that there can be an audit committee operating without interference by the current acting municipal manager, who fiddled with the Audit Committee Charter to suit her DA bosses.” Langa called for the immediate removal of Cronjé as a councillor. Bredell said he, the department and George municipality would study the remedial actions referred to in the report. “Anything that leads to better financial management at municipal-level should be supported,” he said. DA George constituency head Daylin Mitchell said the recommendations of the Public Protector were noted and had already been subjected to due municipal managerial attention. According to Mitchell no financial loss had been incurred and a “handsome return” had been recorded. “The DPCI and the National Prosecuting Authority advised that charges of fraud and corruption were proffered against the former chief financial officer, Keith Jordaan, councillor Cronjé, and his son, and that the NPA had declined to prosecute the matter.” Mitchell said the DA investigated the matter and despite delays resulting from thoroughness, no material breaches were identified and no sanction had been imposed. “No opposition party political attack can deny the good standing of Jordaan and Cronjé,” Mitchell said. Cronjé declined to comment and referred all questions to Mitchell. Cape Times