CAPE TOWN - Sentencing proceedings went ahead against convicted Swellendam serial killer Brian Mudyiwayana after he was found guilty on six counts of murder in the high court sitting at the Swellendam Magistrate’s Court this week. Mudyiwayana – who had also during trial been admitted for mental observation to confirm he was fit to stand trial – was further convicted of a count of robbery with aggravating circumstances and two counts of being in the country illegally. He was acquitted of a rape charge. Mudyiwayana went on a killing spree between 2016 and 2017, murdering five women and a man in Swellendam, Bredasdorp, Mossel Bay and De Doorns. He killed Moleboheng Mafata, Gladys Ntondini, Grace Nyasha Hondo, Naume Gwengwe, Lungelwa Dangatye, and Michael Pekaan. Judge Derek Wille convicted Mudyiwayana after what he described as a “complex and complicated trial” after the serial killer pleaded guilty to the murders, but pleaded not guilty to the other charges against him. National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila said the remains of the women, whom Mudyiwayana duped with false promises of job opportunities, were found dumped in open fields. Pekaan’s body was found in his house and a fridge, DSTV decoder, three television sets, a lawnmower, a new pair of work boots, a pair of training shoes, a DVD player, bedding and a matric ball dress were missing. According to post-mortem and forensic pathologist reports, Mudyiwayana used the same modus operandi when he attacked his victims. “Evidence in this connection was tendered by highly qualified pathologists. This evidence was not the subject of any dispute. The findings by these experts are accordingly mostly common cause, and most of the victims died as a result of blunt trauma to the back of the head. “This similarity in the nature of these wounds and the location of the wounds was marked. This was also commented on by the serial murder profile expert. She concluded that these victims were in all probability killed by the same person,” said Judge Wille. During the trial, Mudyiwayana testified that a muti spell had been cast over him, and that he was not responsible for some of the murders. “All these crimes, he contends, were caused by some spiritual black magic ‘muti’ influence cast over him. In connection with some of the murders, he now for the first time blames and accuses other persons as the perpetrators of these murders. The persons whom he accuses were previously unheard of, and are now mentioned for the first time. This despite his detailed written admissions to the contrary, the prosecution’s evidence to the contrary, and his evidence to the contrary,” court documents read. Ntabazalila said: “In respect of the rape charge, the court held that although there is a strong suspicion that the deceased had been raped, a mere suspicion was not enough to support a finding of rape. Advocate Megan Blows, who took over the State’s case, credited the success of the convictions to the late colleague, advocate Mornay Julius. “The Acting Director of Public Prosecutions, advocate Nicolette Bell, welcomed the judgment and congratulated the sterling work from the police and prosecution teams that led to the successful convictions.” Cape Times