CAPE TOWN - A group of protesting Northlink College Protea Campus students have vowed to disrupt classes this week until their demands are met regarding NSFAS allowances. Protesting students blocked the main gate entrance of the college in Bellville at about 6am. Tuesday was the second day of protests, with students saying management has not responded to their demands since last week. SRC representative Lungile Deleki said they will mobilize other campuses to join the protest. “We engaged with the management last week and they told us that 20% has been paid to the school by NSFAS and they will soon send money to students. Today, no students have received a cent. We thought by now at least half of students would have received their allowances, we want the management to be transparent and give us the exact time. “Almost all students at this college are NSFAS dependants. We have no choice but to disrupt the classes till we get feedback from the management,” said Deleki. Second-year student Siphokazi Qekeleshe said: “We do not understand what is delaying the school in paying our money. Every year we fight for one thing and that is allowances. Why can’t management come up with a plan to avoid this by giving money to at least half of the students for now. Not a single student has received a meal allowance or book allowance but we are expected to come to school with smiles and pretend as if we are not suffering. Our calls are being intentionally ignored,” said Qekeleshe. Northlink principal Xolelo Phike said the College is yet to receive the upfront payment from NSFAS. “As per circular no 2 of 2022, the college submitted registration data records for approved applicants to NSFAS for processing on February 22. However, as this is an NSFAS led process, the college is not in a position to determine the dates when this data will be processed by NSFAS, and the payments thereof. Students are encouraged to continue tracking their application progress using their myNSFAS account,” said Phike. NSFAS did not respond to questions by deadline. Cape Times