CAPE TOWN - Langa residents have called on the City of Cape Town to immediately restrict baptism ceremonies from taking place in the community swimming pool. Residents said they were made aware of a baptising ceremony at the swimming pool over the weekend  through videos shared on social media. “The community of Langa township would like to urgently request immediate restrictions on all types of baptism/cleansing in the community swimming situated in Langa. Among others, this request is because the community of Langa was made aware via social media of a baptism or cleansing which took place in the early morning of Sunday, 27 February 2022,  in our only community swimming pool, which largely gets used by our local children and adults,” wrote one of the residents. But councillor Lwazi Phakade  said churches are allowed to perform baptismal in their public facilities as long as they have booked and filled in the necessary documentation, according to the rules of the City. “We understand the uncomfortability that this might bring to other people, but we must always do our best to allow each other space in our facilities," he said. Mayco member for Community Services and Health, Councillor Patricia Van der Ross, said religious organisations had utilised the facility for some time without incident. “The City swimming pools tariff schedule makes provision for baptism ceremonies to be booked under the City’s book and pay system in the morning from 7am to 10am  before the swimming pool opens to the public. The City’s tariff review process provides communities with  an opportunity to give input into tariffs and the type of events accommodated when formalising the tariffs. No inputs were received regarding restrictions on baptism at pools during our review process. The Department will, however, engage the community through the sub-council to understand what the issues are and then only make a decision whether any changes to the type of events accommodated should be considered,” said van de Ross. Cape Times