CAPE TOWN - Not all those participating in the strike can be blamed for the unlawful acts of one or a few, says the Constitutional Court. This was in relation to a matter between the Commercial Stevedoring Agricultural and Allied Workers’ Union (CSAAWU) and Oak Valley Estates in Grabouw. The central question in the matter was whether an employer faced with unlawful conduct committed during a protected strike could interdict employees participating in that strike without linking each employee to the unlawful conduct? While the Labour Appeal Court held that it can, CSAAWU and 173 striking workers, against whom the Labour Court granted a final interdict – disagreed and approached the apex court to challenge the ruling. They contended that there must be a rational factual connection between the actual or threatened unlawful conduct and the persons against whom the interdict is sought, and that in this case, no such link had been established and the court agreed. In the judgment penned by Justice Leona Theron, the Constitutional Court said: “Oak Valley failed to draw the required link between the applicants and the unlawful conduct. It therefore failed to show that it had a reasonable apprehension that it would suffer injury at the hands of these applicants if they were not placed under interdict. “While I understand that Oak Valley was exposed to unlawful conduct, and have sympathy in this regard, it has made exactly the sort of tenuous case which Brassey AJ said in Polyoak ought not to sustain a final interdict.” The matter goes back to a protected strike on May 6, 2019 called by CSAAWU, at the premises of Oak Valley Estates (Pty) Limited (Oak Valley) operates the Oak Valley Farm in Grabouw. The grievances which underpinned the strike action related to the alleged racially based allocation of employee housing by Oak Valley and its refusal to recognise “seasonal” workers as permanent employees. The workers who participated in the strike were either employed by Oak Valley in terms of permanent contracts of employment or had seasonal employment on Oak Valley’s farm through a labour broker, Boland Labour (Pty) Limited (Boland Labour). Initially, some 364 workers participated in the strike. By the time CSAAWU delivered its replying affidavit in the Labour Court proceedings, which were the subject of the appeal before the ConCourt, only the second to 174th applicants remained on strike. CSAAWU secretary-general, Trevor Christians said they welcomed the judgment for offering protection to unions and workers in protected strikes. “It’s a very good judgment in terms of protecting a protected strike of the workers where companies usually use the unruly conduct of one person or persons and get an interdict against all workers. It makes a clear distinction that people who are unruly should face the consequences, not the workers, moving forward.” Oak Valley managing director, Christopher Rawbone-Viljoen said: “The court confirmed the interdict stands against CSAAWU and one other and that the union did not deny their role in committing several unlawful acts during the strike almost 3 years ago. From the Judgement it now requires Employers to link each individual employee to unlawful acts during a strike, which of course is often not possible, or practical given that these individuals are often wearing balaclavas, are members of the community whose details are unknown or commit these acts under cover of darkness. While we accept the Judgement, we fear it will have far reaching consequences for business owners, in their role as Employer, in strike actions which are a daily reality in our country.”  Cape Times