CAPE TOWN - From November to date, the City’s Fire and Rescue team has responded to 1 066 informal settlement fires, with at least 1130 structures damaged and more than 3000 people affected. In the latest incident on Thursday, several homes and a number of people were displaced when a fire swept through Cathkin Informal Settlement in Heideveld. On Tuesday ten shacks were burnt and 50 people displaced in Samora Machel informal settlement, Philippi. Samora Machel resident Thabile Sikhundla said he was shocked to see dark smoke coming from his house. “The fire almost burnt all my items but luckily things such as my documents and a few items, I had managed to save. Clothes, food, and my wardrobes could not be saved. I was at my friend’s house when I heard people shouting, at first I did not pay attention but later I realised that people who were shouting were close to my house. “When I got there I only managed to save a few things. Other people could not save anything including their documents and important items. Our struggle now is to find new materials to build new shacks. The materials are being sold and we are at the beginning of a crucial month,” said Sikhundla. City’s Fire and Rescue spokesperson, Jermaine Carelse said they were working with Disaster Risk Management on a strategy to reduce fires in informal settlements. Human Settlements mayco member Malusi Booi said in the past, the City almost immediately and automatically provided relief kits to residents in informal settlements and some backyarders affected by fires, outside of a declared national disaster. “This was subject to funding and in particular grant funding filtered down from the National Government. The National Government grants have been cut and this is impacting on some City operations. The City can only access emergency funding if it has been declared as a local disaster, meeting the criteria set by the Department of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta).” “The City remains committed to looking at all possible avenues to assist fire-affected residents,” Booi added. He said the City has taken action to increase financial resources towards the prevention of unlawful land occupation. “The budget for the protection of land has had to be increased substantially at the cost of other services that could have been provided to the residents,” he said. Cape Times