CAPE TOWN - Delft families whose children attend no-fee schools have said that without the option of free eduction, they would struggle to put their children through school. The Cape Times visited several families in the area on Tuesday, who expressed a deep gratitude to no-fee schools. The South African Schools Act declared no-fee schools in 2007 for all nine provinces, and since then the system has helped millions of children to complete their basic education.  Leslynn Damon, a mom of two boys, said she was thankful to not have to pay school fees for her son who is in grade 3 this year. “I am unemployed and my husband recently got retrenched due to Covid-19. I only need to buy stationery which is expensive and they need a lot of things. “It is a good school, and although my son only has school twice or thrice a week, he is doing very well at it.  “He has received five diplomas and excelled in his academics,” said Damon. For Priscilla Pietersen, not having to pay school fees has taken a  load off her shoulders as she is not in a position to work.  She lives within walking distance from the school that her two children attend, so she does not have to spend money on transport either.  “It benefits me that I do not need to pay school fees. I am not working and I receive a disability grant. My children are receiving Sassa assistance as well,“ she said.  Margaret Pietersen is a grandmother to her four foster grandchildren, of whom two are still in school.  Margaret said that financially she had many challenges. “I did not know that raising four children is this difficult, I am alone with them. “For my eldest granddaughter who is in high school, I had to pay for her school fees. I used the money I received from their grant in order to do this.” Western Cape Education Department (WCED) spokesperson Bronagh Hammond said that 61% of schools in the province were now no-fee schools.  The WCED budgeted R73 million in 2020/21 for fee exemption to help learners from disadvantaged communities to attend fee-paying schools, exceeding any other province. “We try and help quintile four and five schools that are classified as such but yet serve poorer communities by making them no-fee – using our own additional funds to support them when they are in dire need, but we also have to stick with the quintile allocation as provided by national (government),” she said.  Cape Times