CAPE TOWN - Organised labour has expressed concern over the pronouncement by the Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment (DFFE) that it will intensify human resource management strategies by reducing its number of personnel  and implementing a freeze on salary increases. In the DFFE’s 2020/21 Yearbook, it is noted that of the department’s allocated R8.2 billion for that financial year, an estimated 52.1% was earmarked for goods and services, including the Expanded Public Works Programme (EPWP) for creating jobs and work opportunities.  Compensation of employees was the department’s second‐largest cost driver, accounting for an estimated 20.8% of expenditure. The DFFE’s spending, however, is expected to decrease at an average annual rate of 3.4%, from R9.9bn in 2020/21 to R8.9bn in 2023/24.  This is primarily due to Cabinet‐approved reductions of R2.2bn over the medium term, the DFFE said. “To accommodate these reductions, the department will reduce expenditure on non-core items such as travel and subsistence, advertising and accommodation and rentals.  “In addition, the DFFE will intensify human resource management strategies by reducing its number of personnel through natural attrition, and implementing a freeze on salary increases,” the department said. National Union of Public Service and Allied Workers (Nupsaw) shop steward Msimelelo Mdledle said they were “deeply concerned” with the department’s statements. “This in our view clearly shows that the department would want to freeze filling of vacancies where there is already a shortfall of staff in certain critical chief directorates. “Currently, various chief directorates within the department are not able to meet all its targets due to shortage of staff and yet the department is considering freezing positions. Should this happen, the current crisis will be worsened,” Mdledle said. He added that the union was also perturbed by the department’s intention to implement a freeze on salary increases prior to wage negotiations being undertaken through the appropriate forum. “This shows that the department is reckless in uttering statements of this nature. Nupsaw would like to put on record that should the department decide to freeze salary increases contrary to provisions of the resolution that would be concluded by parties at the Public Service Co-ordinating Bargaining Council, Nupsaw will not allow such to happen.” Mdledle said Nupsaw would engage DFFE officials to raise its concerns in due course. The Yearbook also noted that in the first quarter of the 2020/21 financial year, the “Working For” programmes were not able to operate due to lockdown conditions. “By cutting back on now unachievable targets in this programme, the department was able to transfer R39 million to the iSimangaliso Wetland Park Authority (iSimangaliso) and R961m to South African National Parks (SANParks).” During the national lockdown, the department’s four entities – the SANParks, South African National Biodiversity Institute (SANBI), iSimangaliso and the South African Weather Service (SAWS) – were unable to realise their usual income and remained self-sustainable. “To ensure that they continue to deliver on their mandates despite the pandemic, the DFFE shifted R1.1bn to the four entities, from the departmental budget,” the DFFE said. Cape Times