CAPE TOWN - Through a necessity to revive, recover and rebuild, wine businesses are undergoing a mind shift in the way they function and the industry has fast-tracked tools to become more adaptable, competitive and sustainable. This was the message at the 16th annual Nedbank Vinpro Information Day attended by around 450 virtual and in-person delegates at Allée Bleue Wine Estate in Franschhoek last week. “The wine industry still faces harsh realities while recovering from the after-effects of Covid-19,” said Vinpro managing director Rico Basson. Glass shortages, export and import challenges at Cape Town harbour, the contrast between a 15% spike in farm cost inflation and a 3 to 5% wine price increase, as well as a growing illicit market are some of the issues that have a significant effect on the entire wine value-chain. Despite the challenges, the industry has managed to reduce the uncontracted wine stock from 200 million litres at the end of 2020 to 60 million litres at end 2021 – in part by allocating wine grapes to grape juice concentrate. This, which along with a smaller wine grape crop as estimated may relieve downward price pressure. Wine export volumes and value have also shown good growth in 2021, particularly in traditional markets such as the UK, while diversifying into the US, China and Africa. “While we commend our producers and cellars for their resilience and tenacity, without innovation we cannot move forward. The wine industry has a clear growth path towards 2025 which will, in close collaboration with relevant government departments and other stakeholders, create an environment for recovery and growth,” Basson said. Just as in South Africa, global wine sales volumes have started recovering, but not yet to pre-pandemic levels. However, the wine category can take its cue from consumer trends linked to strong growth in ready-to-drink (RTD) product sales. “Consider the serving size, style, packaging and the fact that RTDs are usually chilled, carbonated and mostly blends,” said Wine Intelligence chief executive Lulie Halstead. The regular wine drinking population is decreasing, but consumers are becoming more engaged and premium-oriented, supported by an increase in at-home drinking occasions. “As consumers lean towards local and sustainable products, create trust and establish a personal connection in your storytelling, while emphasising the fact that wine is a natural product,” Halstead said. Millenial and Gen-Z consumers are driving a trend towards drinking in moderation, so no-and low-alcohol wines are here to stay. E-commerce channels are also forecast to grow and evolve, with online delivery apps becoming more popular and providing a tool to build brand awareness. Cape Times