CAPE TOWN - The establishment of the Strandfontein homeless shelter has been labelled reckless and irresponsible from a humanitarian and fiscal perspective, following the release of the Special Investigating Unit (SIU) report that found the City’s procurement process to establish the controversial site resulted in staggering irregular expenditure of more than R42 million. The finding was contained in a Special Investigating Unit (SIU) final report that President Cyril Ramaphosa authorised to be released this week. The temporary shelter had housed homeless people who were removed from Cape Town’s streets to apparently limit their exposure to the coronavirus. The site opened at the end of March 2020 and was closed just six weeks later. The SIU found there were irregularities in its establishment and the City’s failure to follow a proper procurement process resulted in it incurring irregular expenditure to the amount of R42 293 285. “The establishment of the Strandfontein Camp was reckless and irresponsible – from both a humanitarian and fiscal perspective. It has sparked widespread outrage and shock,” social justice organisation Ndifuna Ukwazi said. “It simply did not make sense to house thousands of street-based persons, some of which may have immunodeficiencies, like TB and HIV, in large concentrations where Covid-19 can imminently spread. It was a waste of public funds to create this temporary camp rather than dedicating the whopping R42 million’s worth of expenditure towards dignified, sustainable and long term solutions for people experiencing homelessness.” The organisation said at the time that the shelter was established there were roughly 9 000 hotel beds standing empty, Airbnb and other holiday accommodation prices had been slashed and many well-located public buildings stood empty and underutilised. "We urgently call on the City to investigate this irresponsible and wasteful expenditure, and call for the Mayoral Committee Member on Social Development to be immediately suspended pending the outcome of the investigation.” For homeless organisation U-turn, chief executive Jean-Ray Knighton Fitt said with homelessness growing visibly since the state of disaster was declared, it’s imperative that resources are carefully managed and invested in long term impact rather than quick, short term fixes. “While U-turn feels the funding for Strandfontein camp could have been invested in better sustainable solutions, we are also conscious that the first few weeks of lockdown were exceptional times and also that there are politically driven groups that are leveraging the very emotional issue of homelessness for political gain.” Cape Times