CAPE TOWN - The lives of five women who died in a horror accident on the R60 between Worcester and Robertson were celebrated at an emotional memorial service at Maitland’s Royal Road Sports field this week. On December 30, Jessie Gordon, 22, died along with Chante Cloete, 21, Angelique Cloete, 24, Jenna Moses 23 and Jamie Peters, also 23, when the Toyota Yaris they were travelling in apparently made a u-turn and a truck crashed into it. Police confirmed they were investigating a case of culpable homicide. Throughout the week, tributes and messages of condolences poured in for the women  During a memorial service on Wednesday night, mourners including family, friends and Health MEC Nomafrench Mbombo were greeted by pictures of the women and soft candlelight. The service for the women, who loved sports and excelled in netball and basketball, was also streamed live. An emotional Megan Moses who was accompanied by her husband to address the mourners, said when the family was called to elect someone to talk about Jenna, she  wanted to pay tribute to her daughter. “I thank God for the lives of these children who are now our angels. Sport was my child's life and her journey started at the age of six years (old) at Bothasig. Yes her journey was cut short but she achieved a lot of things which I am proud of,” she said. The partners of the women also shared heartfelt tributes. Carolyn Inglis chairperson of the Cape Town Softball Association said: “It is a hard time for everyone, the incident left us reeling in shock and (we are) speechless. No words could ever comfort these families. These women fiercely broke down bearers for girls and women in our communities. It was an honour and privilege to witness their transformation and journey in sport. They played an important role in all our lives, to me they were inspiring, funny, caring and loving.” Cape Town Baseball Federation (CTBF) president Romeo Adams said the legacy the women leave behind must forever be cherished. Cape Times