CAPE TOWN - A young woman from Ilitha Park in Khayelitsha who is recovering at home has detailed how she had to jump out of a moving e-hailing vehicle in fear for her life. Avuyile Adonis suffered bruises on her body, arms and her legs which are swollen, making it difficult for her to walk, following the incident. Police spokesperson Wesley Twigg said a case of reckless and negligent driving was being probed. According to the 24-year-old, she had visited a friend in Belhar for the weekend and was supposed to go back home on Monday. “I slept over at my friend's place on Sunday. At about 7am I requested a ride for me and my other friend using InDriver.  “We entered the back seat and greeted the driver. Along the way the driver was quiet and I was conversing with my friend.” Adonis said the trip to Khayelitsha was good until they arrived at their destination and the driver rejected their R200 when they attempted to pay for the trip. “All of a sudden he was angry and said he will not take our money because it’s fake. To avoid arguing I suggested to remain in the car with the driver while my friend goes inside the house to fetch money,” she said. Adonis said she has heard stories of e-hailing drivers not being paid and she stayed behind to show the driver they were not robbing him. “He kept on looking at me in the mirror and all of a sudden threatened me, saying he could drive away with me if he wanted. I was shocked and even before I could finish asking why he would say that, he stepped on the accelerator and drove off with me.  “I begged him to stop and when he didn’t, I opened the door and jumped out. I really don’t know what would have happened to me or what his plan was,” said Adonis. The 24-year-old said a man who lives in the same street as her came to her aid. “He carried me home and tried to chase after the driver using his car. He came back a few minutes later saying he couldn’t see where he turned.  “He transported me to the Khayelitsha Day Hospital where I was treated for my injuries. A medical report of what happened was done. I hope the driver gets arrested soon to explain his actions because he knows where I stay,” she said. InDriver company said in a statement their internal investigation was under way. “We are conducting a check on this incident. We will take the necessary measures and are also ready to provide full assistance to the police in the investigation. We never stand aside in such situations. User safety is our top priority.” Cape Times