CAPE TOWN - Firefighters had to battle several flare-ups around the province in scorching hot temperatures that reached 40 degrees at the weekend. The heatwave conditions forced Cape Nature to close the Kogelberg Nature Reserve’s hiking trails for safety and health reasons while Wilderness Search and Rescue (WSAR) responded to four reports of patients suffering from heat exhaustion and dehydration on Platteklip trail, Lion’s Head on Sunday. With people flocking to beaches to cool off, SANParks closed a section of the Boulders Penguin Colony Beach in Simon’s Town on Sunday as it quickly reached capacity. The Volunteer Wildfire Services (VWS) meanwhile offered a R10 000 reward for information that will lead to a successful arrest in connection with a vegetation fire on Ou Kaapse Weg. The VWS, Working on Fire, Table Mountain National Parks and City’s fire crews responded to multiple fires on both sides of Ou Kaapse Weg on Saturday. This led to road closures and visitors to the Silvermine area had to be evacuated. “It took us about an hour to get this fire under control. Initial attack definitely worked for us,” Table Mountain National Park fire manager Philip Prins said. VWS issued an alert urging anyone who witnessed a vehicle driving very slowly over Ou Kaapse Weg between 11.40am and12pm, to contact them. “The investigation is progressing well and we ask the public to continue sharing (the) post to their community groups. With the amount of traffic on Ou Kaapse Weg when the incident happened someone saw something that will further assist with the investigation. We have numerous eye witnesses, accessing traffic camera video footage, and reconstructing the event,” VWS said. Meanwhile Cape Winelands District Municipality (CWDM) crews were battling fires in Agter-Vinkrivier, Robertson Valley and Pearl Valley in Paarl on Sunday. According to CWDM spokesperson Jo-Anne Otto, the Robertson Valley flames were caused by lightning on Saturday and continued burning out of control on Sunday. “The fire teams have identified areas where lines are currently burning actively in the mostly inaccessible areas of the Langeberg Mountains. The fire line is very large and due to a combination of factors including inaccessibility, the effective deployment of resources and in the interest of the protection of lives, infrastructure and property, the fire teams will act pro-actively.” Otto said the progress of the fire was being monitored by their fire services and the Volunteer Fires Services teams to prevent the fire from reaching properties. Otto said the Paarl fire was mostly contained. “The dense vegetation, most of which is still smouldering, is causing a lot of smoke. At this stage fire fighting activities are going well, however teams are concerned that the wind may pick up causing sparks to travel to the nearby thatched structures,” she said. Cape Times