CAPE TOWN - Murder accused Piketberg police officer Richard Smit has halted his bail application after changing legal representatives at his second court appearance on Thursday. Charges have mounted against the cop and he now faces seven as the investigation continues. Smit is accused of murdering his girlfriend, Natasha Booise, while she was visiting her family on January 2. National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila said Smit arrived at the court on Thursday for a scheduled bail application. “The bail application did not take place as Smit changed his legal representative and hired Cape Town-based lawyer William Booth.  “Booth was not present in court today and the case was postponed until Monday, January 17,  for him to come on record and for a new date to be set for a formal bail application. “The accused was remanded in custody.  “The accused now faces seven charges compared to the three charges he faced during his first appearance.  “Last week the NPA indicated that the investigation was continuing and more charges are likely to be added.  “He now faces seven charges which include the murder of his girlfriend Natasha Booise, two counts of attempted murder (attempted to murder Roslin Kaaiman and Erin Plaatjies), discharging a firearm in a built-up area, handling of a firearm while under the influence of a substance which has an intoxicating or narcotic effect and two counts of assault.  “The State is ready for the application for bail and will oppose it,” said Ntabazalila. Previously, Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) spokesperson Grace Langa said Smit, who had been driving his private vehicle and was off-duty at the time, approached Booise from behind. The officer reportedly shot and killed Booise with his service pistol. “Booise turned around and walked back to the police official.  “She stood outside on the driver's door and she was seen holding the hands of the police officer while the member was still seated on the driver's seat.  “The member then cocked his service pistol and he fired multiple shots in the direction of the deceased whilst she was fleeing from Smit.” Smit handed himself over to the police after the incident.  Cape Times