CAPE TOWN - The Langa Cricket Club has launched a petition in a bid to get the Western Province Cricket Association (WPCA) to allow its members to compete again.  This after the association in October suspended the club from participating in 2021/22 fixtures following allegations of internal instability within the governing structures.  The club has since launched a petition, which had garnered more than 2,900 signatures by Tuesday, calling for the association to lift the ban.  The club’s secretary, Scent Senti, said allegations of internal instability within the club were false.  Senti said they tried to resolve issues with the association.  “The association further imposed many steps the club should take for them to lift the suspension, all of which go against the club's constitution.  “WPCA later suggested the club amends its constitution to align with that of WPCA. No word on lifting the suspension, just imposed deliberations and stonewalling,“ he said.  Senti said the community and the club’s players were hardest hit by the suspension.  “The suspension is discouraging and detrimental to the players’ confidence, mental and emotional health. Sports in this community is part of existing and cricket is a lifeline of that development. We just want that lifeline working to its optimum capacity. “In as much as the suspension is about not participating in WPCA league fixtures, when players come to train here or to sign-up as club members, they train with the goal and intention to compete with other clubs. To take the possibility of playing with other clubs away makes (us) wonder, what are we training for? This is the sad case with this suspension,“ he said.  WPCA chief executive Michael Canterbury said the issues at Langa Cricket Club, that have played out over several months, were complex and have had a negative impact on cricket in the club and the community. “WPCA is the custodian of professional and amateur cricket in the region. As such WPCA’s overarching interest in this matter is to serve the cricket community and to help get cricket at Langa Cricket Club back on track as soon as possible.  “It is a priority to ensure that this iconic cricket club continues to feature in Western Province cricket and continues to deliver a nursery of incredible cricket talent. “While several attempts at mediation between the two parties within the club have been unsuccessful, WPCA remains committed to ensuring that Langa Cricket Club and its leadership are in a position to conduct its affairs in a sustainable manner for the benefit of the community which the club serves,“ he said.  Canterbury has said they will continue to work with the parties to seek solutions so that the cricket can thrive in the Langa community. The petition can be viewed at: https://www.change.org/p/western-province-cricket-association-lift-the-suspension-of-langa-cricket-club-officialcsa Cape Times