CAPE TOWN - Schools in the province ensured a smooth start for pupils who returned to the classroom on Wednesday, despite pressure from anxious parents who flocked in hopes that space was available for their children. Learning and teaching is expected to be under way for about 1.1 million pupils in the province this week, including 105 000 Grade 1s and  97 000 are Grade 8s, as schools in coastal provinces reopened. There are at least 442 Grade 1 and 2 419 Grade 8 pupils who still need to be placed. In Khayelitsha, parents stood in the scorching sun outside Inkanini Primary School with their unplaced children, while community leaders and school management held a closed meeting. One of the parents, Thando Khatani, said he was trying for the first time to apply for his son to attend grade 1 at the school. "He was schooling in the Eastern Cape where he stayed with his grandmother and he came here for the December holiday.  “We had no intentions of him schooling here because we were going to prepare by applying early.  “There was a last minute family problem and he couldn't go back.  “Today I woke up early to get a place for him. The school is still sorting out those who applied early and then vowed to attend to us,” he said. Another parent who had a similar issue said she was still waiting for her son's school transfer letter from his previous school in the Eastern Cape. “I have been coming here since Monday hoping that he gets space in Grade 7, at least this is the first day of school. There won’t really be any learning losses.” At Fairdale Primary School in Mfuleni there were similar scenes of parents sitting outside. A teacher told the parents there was space for their children, and they would be attended around 1pm or 2pm when they placed those who applied first. Speaking at Perivale Primary School in Grassy Park, Education MEC Debbie Schäfer said the department received more than 32 000 late applications and  districts were working hard to ensure placements as soon as possible. “The department is making over 18 000 extra places for learners available throughout this year, by approving additional teaching posts, adding extra classrooms, refurbishing existing classrooms, and constructing schools.” Schäfer said they also anticipated that two new mobile schools will be completed by the end of the first term and four additional schools that were under construction would be completed during the course of this year. Cape Times