CAPE TOWN - The Health Department has called on those who experience any adverse events following vaccination to immediately report to the nearest health facility or vaccination site. This after a video clip recently circulated on social media depicting a male patient suffering from what appeared to be throat cancer, claiming this was the result of a Covid-19 vaccine. The department said it noted the video with concern. “Each province and district have allocated persons who are responsible for investigating severe and serious adverse events following immunisation within 48 hours since it has been identified or the health system has been notified thereof.  However, there is no time limit to reporting an event. “All adverse events following immunisation are taken seriously, and appropriate action can only be taken if they are reported,” the department said. They emphasised that Covid-19 vaccines were safe and highly effective at preventing hospitalisation and death. “We discourage members of the public from using other people’s health conditions and life experiences to push their personal theories to justify the unjustifiable opposition to this life-saving intervention.” All vaccines and medicines have side effects, with the majority of Covid-19 vaccine side effects being minor and resolving within 2-3 days.  “Serious adverse events following immunisation are very rarely caused by immunisation. They are most often health events that would have happened regardless of whether a vaccine was received,” the department said. As of Tuesday, the country recorded a total of 3 534 131 Covid-19 infections. According to the National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD) in the past week the Western Cape reported the highest number of cases detected (26.4%), followed by the KwaZulu-Natal (22.9%) and Gauteng (21.4%) with other provinces reporting below 11% each. Adverse events following immunisation can be reported using the Med Safety App (https://medsafety.sahpra.org.za/) or by completing a ‘Case report form’ which may be accessed at https://www.nicd.ac.za/diseases-a-z-index/adverse-event-following- immunization-aefi/. The form should be returned by email to AEFI@health.gov.za. The COVID-19 Public Hotline can be contacted on 0800 0299 99. Cape Times