CAPE TOWN - Women and the youth are at the top of the recruitment list for building contracts within the Western Cape Department of Human Settlements (WCDoHS). Described as a historic move, the department launched its contractor’s framework which invites bids from Historically Disadvantaged Individuals (HDI) Engineering and Construction Contractors to participate in a Framework Agreement with the WCDoHS. The agreement will be applicable for a period of three years, and means that all those with successful bid submissions are placed on the framework, where should they meet all the relevant criteria for a specific contract, would then be able to submit quotations for that contract. The scope of engineering and construction work for the purpose of the implementation of Human Settlements Infrastructure Delivery, may fall within one (or more) of the following classes of construction work: General Building (2GB to 7GB) Civil Engineering (2CE to 7CE) Electrical Engineering Works – Building (2EB to 7EB) Electrical Engineering Works – Infrastructure (2EP to 7EP) Landscaping, irrigation and horticulture works (2SH to 7SH) Steel security fencing or precast concrete fencing (2SQ to 7SQ) This framework has strict conditions, which should be met in order for a contractor to bid. Amongst others, these include: 51% women ownership, 51% black youth ownership and 51% black ownership by people living with disabilities. Human Settlements MEC Tertuis Simmers said: “I’m excited about the launch of this framework, as it demonstrates our continued commitment to empowering our historically disadvantaged individuals. We’ve already shown that we invest in the empowerment of our contractors, by spending more than 50% of our Human Settlement Development Grant on their development. With this historic initiative, we’re taking it a step further, as this will ensure that more contractors have access to these types of opportunities.” The framework opened on Friday, January 21 2022, and closes at 11am on Friday, February 25 2022. All those interested in bidding can collect the tender documents from the 6th floor at the Western Cape Department of Human Settlements, 27 Wale Street, Cape Town or the 2nd floor, Department of Human Settlements, York Park Building, York Street, George, from the Supply Chain Management Procurement office. Any further queries around the tender procedure can be directed Ms E Pillay on 021 483 3173 or email Esther.Stephanus-Pillay@westerncape.gov.za or Ms S July; email Simthandile.July@westerncape.gov.za Queries around technical aspects may be directed to Mr. Sandile Gqoboka, on 021 483 3973 or email sandile.gqoboka@westerncape.gov.za The physical address for the closing of bids are: Tender Box, Ground floor, Western Cape Government Department of Human Settlements, 27 Wale Street, Cape Town, or 2nd floor, Department of Human Settlements, York Park Building, York Street, George. Cape Times