CAPE TOWN - Drunk-driving and alcohol consumption in public spaces continued to give law enforcers a headache over the past week.  At least 31 inebriated motorists and 428 speedsters were nabbed on Western Cape roads between December 27 - January 2. A total of 9 505 fines which tallied to R8 525 750 were issued for various traffic violations ranging from driver to vehicle fitness. With many people starting to travel back from holidays and roads expected to be much busier next week as more industries reopen, provincial Transport MEC Daylin Mitchell urged people to use the roads responsibly. Mitchell noted that the 32 road deaths reported last week was an improvement after crashes claimed the lives of 55 people from December 20 until 27. “Although (the number of arrests) reflects a high success rate, the incidence of drunk driving remains really concerning to me and our teams are working around the clock to keep these drunk drivers off our roads. “As the Province prepares for motorists to return to their respective destinations we appeal to all motorists and road users to practise patience, avoid reckless and negligent driving, and rest sufficiently after every two hours of their journey. “Make the correct choices by checking your vehicle, not exceeding the speed limit, overtake only where it is lawful and absolutely safe to do so and never drink and drive,” said Mitchell. Meanwhile the City’s law enforcement officers confiscated nearly 5 000 litres of alcohol from public spaces. The officers seized 8 699 bottles of alcohol, amounting to 4 786.66 litres. The bulk was confiscated on Boxing Day where 2315 bottles were taken. On New Year’s Day, 1206 bottles were confiscated.  "Removing the alcohol through impounding it is no mean feat. Many people become riotous or refuse to cooperate. But I want to remind the public that every litre of alcohol confiscated is potentially one fewer person driving drunk, or swimming drunk, or getting involved in a fight or an accident or hurting someone else,“ said Mayoral committee member for safety and security JP Smith. He added that of the 156 arrests in the past week, 25 were for motorists alleging driving under the influence of alcohol. Cape Times