Cape Town ​-- Monkey Town management and their legal team are in the process of liaising with the Cape of Good Hope SPCA regarding warnings issued to them citing 14 animal welfare violations. This after the CoGH SPCA conducted a welfare visit to the primate centre in Somerset West last week after receiving a tip off. Lawyer for owner Rene Grobler, Wernher Bock, said: “Our client is fully committed to working with the SPCA to ensure the best possible living circumstances for all his animals. We are in the process of liaising with the SPCA regarding the relevant warnings and the merits thereof, and our client intends to meet with the SPCA to point out various misconceptions. “As an example of some of the misconceptions, a veterinarian, Dr Karl du Preez, examined the mongoose lemurs on January 14 and found that they were both ‘in good health and free of obvious parasites’. The 48 hours warnings regarding the donkey and the mongoose lemurs were indeed adhered to.” Bock said his client was not willing to provide any further comment at this stage. CoGH SPCA’s inspector Werner Taljaard last week visited the popular facility, accompanied by wildlife officer, Jon Friedman. Taljaard had then given the establishment seven days to remedy the cited violations or they could face prosecution after he noticed “several animal welfare concerns and contraventions…which included poor hygiene standards at the facility”. Chief inspector Jaco Pieterse had said: “The establishment is trading and offers self-catering accommodation, picnic and braai facilities to the public at a fee. We are therefore of the opinion that our findings are in the interest of the public. People should know what they are paying for.” According to the CoGH SPCA, during the inspection, they had noticed in the squirrel monkey enclosure a staff member was using a petrol weed eater which emanated a loud sound while “visibly distressed” animals were still in the enclosure. Another observation was that a donkey’s hooves were severely overgrown and in poor condition. They were ordered to have the donkey examined and treated by a farrier within 48 hours.  Cape Times