CAPE TOWN - The Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA) has dismissed an appeal by a logistics company who tried to escape liability for Sars penalties of over R30 million in relation to consignments of alcohol in a customs warehouse in Cape Town. The case concerned the interpretation of contractual provisions intended to indemnify the licensee of a customs warehouse against liability for customs duty, VAT, and other charges or whether surety’s liability was limited to charges in respect of storage. The court found in the licensee, Zacpak Cape Town Depot’s, favour and dismissed the appeals of Cornerstone Logistics and Preston Aitken with costs, ordering them to pay Zacpack the money owed to Sars. The matter dates back to September 2017, when Cornerstone Logistics, represented by the second appellant, Aitken, submitted an application to Zacpak Cape Town Depot for credit facilities in respect of warehousing services. Zacpak provided a quotation for the services and Aitken had signed the credit application form as surety and co-principal debtor. According to court papers, sometime between August 2017 and November 2018, Cornerstone instructed Zacpak to store various consignments of alcohol in its customs warehouse. Zacpak subsequently released the goods to Bridge Shipping, a road carrier, who was supposed to export the goods to Mozambique on Cornerstone’s instruction. However, the goods were impermissibly diverted and ended up being used for home consumption in South Africa. Thereafter Sars sent a letter to Zacpak demanding payment of duties, value-added tax and other related charges totalling R37 416 153.27. Zacpak then lodged an internal appeal with Sars, which was dismissed. It then launched proceedings in the high court for an order setting the letter of demand aside. In the interim, proceedings were launched to enforce the indemnity and surety clauses against Cornerstone and Aitken. Like the SCA, the high court before it upheld the claim finding Cornerstone was liable on the basis of indemnity and Aitken on the basis of suretyship, and ordered them to pay what was required to Sars. Citing the Standard Terms and Conditions in the agreement between the parties, Judge John Smith found: “Cornerstone was liable for “. . . any duties, taxes, imposts, levies, deposits or outlays of whatever nature by or payable to the authority, intermediaries or other parties at any port or place or in connection with the goods. “In my view, the incorporation of the Standard Terms and Conditions into the agreement means that Mr Aitken’s liability as surety for ‘any amount due’ must include any amount payable by Cornerstone in terms thereof. “The appeal must fail. There is no reason why costs should not follow the result,” he said. Lawyers for Cornerstone and Aitken, Alta Potgieter said they had no comment on the matter. For Zacpak, attorney Aaron Larkens said: “The unanimous judgment of the SCA is well-reasoned and its findings, as to the facts and their application to the law, are absolutely correct and cannot be faulted. This much is also supported by the fact that the court a quo had adopted the same reasoning and came to the same conclusions,” he said. Cape Times