CAPE TOWN - With the Western Cape now having passed the peak of its fourth wave, analysis has shown fewer deaths among fully vaccinated persons compared to previous waves. In an update on the province’s Covid-19 cases and vaccine programme, Premier Alan Winde said between November 15 and December 11 last year, it was found that of those aged 60 years and older, 32 people died of which only three were fully vaccinated. Of those aged between 50 – 59, eight died of which only one person was fully vaccinated. Of those between 35 - 49 years old, 11 people died of which only one was fully vaccinated. Between 18 – 34 years, three people died, none of whom were fully vaccinated. “The Provincial Department of Health’s analysis of the fourth wave shows us that there is a widening in the gap between cases, admissions, and deaths if we compare the third wave and fourth wave,” Winde said. While case numbers and test positivity in this wave have exceeded previous waves, hospital admissions are lower than the previous wave at 64% of the third wave admissions peak. Further, while deaths have increased in the last two weeks, they stand at just 24% of the third wave peak, Winde said. “This is very positive and can be attributed to increased protection from the vaccine, immunity from prior infection, as well as emerging evidence that omicron may be less severe.” To date, 62.73% of those who are 50 years and older are fully vaccinated in the province. Of those between 35 – 49 years, 49.21% are fully vaccinated. Between 18 – 34 years, 33.70% are fully vaccinated and between 12 – 17 years, 17.19% are vaccinated. “While the number of cases and test positivity rate exceeded the second and third wave peak respectively, hospitalisations were lower, and deaths remained notably low. Our oxygen usage increases, which is the most robust measure for COVID-19 hospital capacity, did not exceed 50%, which meant that even at our peak we remained on our own lowest trigger level. “Throughout this time, our health platform maintained sufficient capacity to respond. We did not need to open all our field hospital wards, and we maintained our COVID-19 critical care capacity throughout this period, including at our peak,” Winde said. The province is recording an average of 2022 new diagnoses per day and an average of 29 deaths per day. “It is, however, important to note that our data scientists have received a large import of data on deaths from the National Department of Home Affairs which had been backlogged, totalling 150 deaths. This has increased our daily death average; however, when allocating these deaths by day, over time, the absolute death numbers throughout the fourth wave have remained low,” Winde said.  The City meanwhile is introducing vaccination services at four additional sites this week. The Non-Profit Organisation, Khethimpilo will host pop-up vaccination sites on a rotational basis at the Luvuyo CDC in Khayelitsha on Mondays and Tuesdays, Gordon’s Bay CDC on Wednesdays, Dr. Ivan Tomms CDC on Thursdays and Town Two CDC in Khayelitsha on Fridays between 9am and 3pm. Cape Times