CAPE TOWN - Jailed child killer Melvyn Volkwyn’s application for leave to appeal against his conviction and sentencing has been denied in the Western Cape High Court. Volkwyn was sentenced to 20 years imprisonment for his involvement in the murder of toddler Orderick Lucas who went missing on March 24, 2019. The toddler’s lifeless body was found eight days later in a stormwater drain just metres from his grandparent’s home when children who had been playing in Wittebol Street, Melton Rose tried to retrieve a ball. Volkwyn, who had maintained his innocence throughout trial, had lent himself to the high court for leave to appeal against his conviction on a charge of murder. According to application documents, Volkwyn’s defence attorney, Susan Kuun, averred that the court had misdirected itself, among others, “that with the proven facts and on the totality of evidence, the only reasonable inference that can be drawn is that (Volkwyn) killed the baby”. “Volkwyn contends that Davedine was not an honest witness. She lied to social workers about (Orderick’s) broken arm as well as the identity of Orderick’s biological father. “Volkwyn argues that another court would arrive at a different finding concerning the conviction and that this court should grant the application for leave to appeal,” court documents read. Volkwyn further disputed the findings of the court in which, during conviction and sentencing, acting Judge Nolundi Nyati, said Volkwyn had an “unhealthy obsession” with Orderick. The State, in opposing the application, said the witnesses for the State were credible and that “the fact of the matter according to the State was that Volkwyn was the last person to have been with baby Orderick while he was still alive.” Declining the application Judge Nyati said: “Volkwyn is correct when it says there is no direct evidence to prove that he murdered baby Orderick. However, the circumstantial or indirect evidence is overwhelming. The circumstantial evidence in this case support the substantial evidence. Circumstantial evidence is persuasive if the inference sought to be drawn from the evidence is consistent with all the facts proved and it is the most plausible inference.” Judge Nyati further said the evidence offered by defence witnesses Locresia Goliath and Betty Cloete - who testified they had last seen Davedine carrying Orderick on her back the day after his disappearance, at the tuckshop - “was unbelievable”. Judge Nyati said she was satisfied that the State had proven their case beyond reasonable doubt and that she was not persuaded that another court would arrive at a different conclusion. Kuun indicated they would appeal against the High Court decision. Cape Times