CAPE TOWN - Assisting a devastated owner with the euthanasia of his horse, overseeing the ritual slaughter of a sheep and responding to complaints of a flat containing an excessive number of cats is all in a day's work for Cape of Good Hope (CoGH) SPCA inspectors. The Cape Times this week accompanied Inspector Siviwe Noko as he journeyed around Cape Town responding to a number of animal-related issues over the course of his nine-hour shift, which he said often extends late into the night. Noko has been an inspector with the CoGH SPCA based in Grassy Park for five years and covers the central region of Cape Town. He said he has a love for animals and enjoys working with them. "They can't speak or defend themselves, so I feel like there is a need for me to be there for them. I feel the need to protect and fight for them and also to be their voice," he said. Noko's first stop for the day was in Crossroads, where he responded to a complaint concerning a puppy tied to a short leash. Finding a home's exact address sometimes proves difficult as road names and residence numbers are not always visible. When arriving at the house, the owners were not present but the little dog was seen tied up in the front yard on a short rope. Noko explained that it was the third time visiting the home and not finding the owner, and he would have to return to the same address at 7pm as his hands were tied in taking any action without the consent of the owner. Noko said that although his job description says his shift ends at 5pm, he does not have control as there are certain cases which allow him to work late. "I will have to come back later when the owners are home and take the necessary action. Maybe I will issue him a warning to untie the puppy. Should they fail to comply, further action will be taken." After every case, Noko completes a report via an SPCA app called Welfare Tracker. The next stop on Noko’s journey would have been to Mitchells Plain, but a quick detour was made after receiving a call about a horse that was in severe pain in Leiden, Delft.  Noko found a horse named Blondy that had been severely ill for two days. Its owner, Kurt Grantham, said he bought the horse four days ago. "I just want her to stop suffering by getting her help," a heartbroken Grantham said. It was suspected that Blondy had colic, which indicates a painful problem in the horse's abdomen. Blondy was weak and only managed to take a few steps forwards before she fell to the ground. Grantham gave Noko permission to euthanise Blondy as he did not have the financial means to have her operated on. "I love horses, this is my first horse but the purpose of buying the horse was to look for survival through selling fruits and vegetables. "Having her euthanised does not sit well with me, but I understand it's for her best interest," said Grantham. Later in Goodwood, Noko responded to a complaint from a landlord and tenants about a resident who owns nine cats and lives with them in the small room she is renting. The owner of the cats was not home. The cats were kept in the small room with a litter box and the smell was pungent. “Here are children living in the house who have flea marks from these cats and my 19-month-old daughter is allergic to cats," said tenant Nakisha Scholtz. Landlord Graham Oosthuizen said the tenant refused to listen to their concerns. "There are a lot of cats, one of the cats already gave birth in that small space. I never said anything but it's becoming a problem with the children being bitten by fleas,"  Oosthuizen said. Noko explained that without the presence of the owner, he would return the next day. Also in Goodwood, Noko responded to a complaint about an animal being slaughtered. On arrival, it was discovered that a sheep was about to be slaughtered for cultural reasons. "It is legal to slaughter for cultural reasons, but they need a permit," said Noko. He assisted the family by guiding them to slaughter the sheep in the most humane way possible. Noko said he would further help his colleagues in other areas until his shift was over. “Prior to working at the SPCA, I used to work at a private vet. I enjoy working with animals. "I ensure that each and every animal I come across enjoys its five freedoms as stipulated in the Animals Protection Act of 1962," Noko said. To report animal cruelty, call the SPCA Inspectorate on 021 700 4158/59 or call 083 326 1604 for all after-hours emergencies. To assist the organisation’s efforts, visit: https://capespca.co.za/how-to-help/ or https://capespca.co.za/donate/ Cape Times