CAPE TOWN - A 22-year-old City of Cape Town Law Enforcement officer is expected to appear in court on Tuesday for murder, after a homeless person was shot in the face and killed in Rondebosch. Police spokesperson Andrè Traut said a 38-year-old homeless man was killed on Sunday morning in Chester Road. Good Party secretary-general Brett Herron last night issued a statement saying it was suspected that law enforcement officials had responded to a complaint from a resident about a small cooking fire made by the homeless community in the area, when there was a scuffle over the dousing of the fire. Traut said: “Rondebosch police are investigating the circumstances surrounding a murder, following an incident where a 38-year-old homeless man was shot and killed. The suspect, a 22-year-old law enforcement officer was arrested and is expected to make his court appearance today in Wynberg on a charge of murder.” The City confirmed it was aware of the incident. “The matter is being investigated by SAPS, and enquiries should be directed to them. “The City views the incident in a very serious light and will cooperate with the investigation, where needed. “Furthermore, the City will follow the prescribed labour related laws and policies applicable to this matter. “We note some irresponsible statements speculating on the matter which are inaccurate and that those who respect the rule of law should allow it to take its course and allow the facts to be determined.” Herron said the incident “raised more disturbing questions about the City’s Municipal Police Service and its conduct”. “The dangerous conditions under which many communities live are made even more dangerous by uniformed but undertrained law enforcement officers. “Shooting someone dead over a pot of food also, once again, underscores the DA-led City’s deplorable victimisation of homeless people. “The Mayor must please explain the actions of his law enforcement officers. “Real crime-prevention and crime-fighting are not achieved by under-trained, unaccountable enforcement – which bears the hallmarks of vigilantism. Crime fighting requires lawfulness, discipline, training and accountability,” Herron said. Cape Times