CAPE TOWN - It’all systems go as Stats SA says it is ready to conduct the nationwide population and housing census from February 3 – 28. During the fourth population count post-democracy and the country’s first digital census, at least 165 000 fieldworkers will be deployed across the country to count everyone within the borders of South Africa. The census was due to be conducted in October last year but was delayed due to disruptions caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. Deputy Minister in the Presidency Thembi Siweya visited Stats SA’s head office at Salvokop on Tuesday and was briefed on the state of readiness by Statistician-General Risenga Maluleke and Census 2022 project director Calvin Molongoana. “I am pleased that we can now have fresh data to help us with policy formulation and evidence-based decision making. Conducting a census is key as the census is the only source of small-area data,” said Siweya. Maluleke noted that it had been over 10 years since the last conducted census. “We recruited our fieldworkers via online methods only and we will use only digital devices to collect data for Census 2022. “Remote data collection is available, which should help those who want to do self-enumeration to participate from anywhere and at their own convenience (within remote data collection timelines). “It has been over 10 years since we last conducted a census – in 2011. Census 2022 offers the country an opportunity to collect, compile and publish updated demographic, economic and social data for all persons in the country,” said Maluleke. The data produced in the census includes variables on demographic information, migration, mortality, fertility, agricultural activities, food security, health, education levels, income, and household goods and services. Molongoana said his team was ready to oversee the implementation of their processes to ensure a successful population and housing count. “We want to ensure that each individual and each living quarters are enumerated. This is the stocktaking of a country’s people, where and how people live,” he said. Cape Times