CAPE TOWN - The SA Veterinary Council (SAVC) has welcomed the recent conviction and sentencing of two women who practised illegally, placing the lives of animals at risk and defrauding pet owners. “These guilty findings show that our complaints process is working and that the courts are succeeding in bringing such people to book,” said the SAVC’s director of legal affairs, Dinamarie Stoltz. The first case related to a Brakpan suspect Ekurhuleni. SAVC said the woman was once authorised by the SAVC to practise as an animal welfare assistant at the Brakpan SPCA, meaning she did not hold any veterinary or para-veterinary qualifications, but was permitted to perform certain stated primary animal health-care services, supervised by a registered veterinarian. However, her authorisation was withdrawn when she was dismissed from the SPCA in 2017 and she was no longer allowed to render any animal-related services. A complaint was subsequently lodged with the SAVC that she had set up a business advertising veterinary services, such as vaccinating and treating animals and prescribing medicine, and had claimed to be a qualified veterinary nurse. The SAVC referred the matter to its investigations inspectorate, XTND, which compiled a docket that the police submitted to the National Prosecuting Authority for prosecution. The case went to court and the suspect was convicted in October 2021 in the Springs Magistrate’s Court of contravening section 23(1)(a) of the Veterinary and Para-Veterinary Professions Act, No. 19 of 1982. She was fined R2 000, with the option of a six-month jail term. “This conviction underscores the importance of members of the public always making sure that they are using a veterinary or para-veterinary professional who is registered with the SAVC for the care of their pets and livestock,” said Stoltz. “If you’re not sure, you can consult the lists of registered professionals and practices on our website – www.savc.org.za.” The second matter related to a foreign national from Germany living in South Africa. The SAVC said a complaint was received that the suspect was allegedly vaccinating animals with vaccines that were allegedly imported illegally and that had expired in some cases. It was suspected that the woman may have been a veterinarian in Germany previously, but she was not entitled to practise in South Africa unless she was registered with the SAVC. The SAVC referred the complaint to the Department of Agriculture, Land Reform and Rural Development to investigate, as animal vaccines fall under the Fertilizers, Farm Feeds, Agricultural Remedies and Stock Remedies Act, No. 36 of 1947. In August the woman was convicted in the Swellendam Magistrate’s Court of passing herself off as a veterinarian when she was not registered with the SAVC. She was found guilty of contravening the conditions of section 23(2)(b), read with section 19(2), section 20 and section 41 of the Veterinary and Para-Veterinary Professions Act of 1982. “Just as we need to be protected from fraudulent medical professionals who can harm people, we also need to be protected from fraudulent veterinary practitioners who place our pets’ lives in danger,” Stoltz said. “We cannot allow the public to be taken for a ride by laypeople who have not been trained in the proper procedures and are not equipped to manage the cold chain required for vaccinations.” For more information about registered practitioners, or to lay a complaint, visit www.savc.org.za. Cape Times