CAPE TOWN - While Premier Alan Winde remains tight-lipped about his reasons for suspending Community Safety MEC Albert Fritz, this could be an attempt to remove him from his cabinet to make way for recently sworn-in MPL Dan Plato’s “soft landing”, according to opposition parties. Fritz has since also stepped down as the DA’s Western Cape leader. While Fritz could not be reached for comment on Monday, Winde would not be drawn into reports, he suspended him over sexual misconduct allegations, saying no further information would be divulged “until an independent investigator has determined the full extent of the allegations and their veracity”. “I know there have been many questions raised around the nature of the allegations which resulted in the suspension of Fritz. It is always my preference to be open and transparent with residents of the province and the media. In this case, however, noting specific requests by the complainants for confidentiality, the seriousness of the allegations made and the rights of all parties to a fair and unprejudiced investigation into the veracity of the claims made, I may not do so at this stage. “I assure you that I am treating this matter with the seriousness it deserves and I will provide further updates as soon as I am able to. Finally, I have noted many rumours and reports by individuals who wish to politicise this matter. I will not play politics with the wellbeing of people and would like to urge anyone who views this matter as a political football to show restraint,” said Winde. Cultural Affairs and Sport MEC Anroux Marais has been appointed the acting Community Safety MEC. DA provincial chairperson, Jaco Londt, also confirmed they have accepted the request from Fritz to step down from his position as provincial leader until the investigation into the allegations are complete. “Fritz will provide his full cooperation and has stepped down to allow the investigation to proceed unhindered. The Provincial Executive Committee has actioned this request, and the deputy leader, Tertuis Simmers, will be Acting Leader for the time being,” said Londt. Simmers said he implored all to respect the due processes as outlined by the premier. “We will comment more once we’ve been able to obtain more information. As the interim leader I can confirm that Fritz has requested that he be excused from his duties as Leader until the end of February.  Earlier (Monday) morning the PEC accepted this and as the Deputy Leader I will be acting leader for the time being.” But GOOD Secretary-General, MPL and former DA member  Brett Herron said: “The allegations now levelled against Fritz have been circulating in political circles for a few years. “It is rumoured that the allegations have been brought to the surface, now, in order to create a space in the Western Cape cabinet for former Mayor of Cape Town, Dan Plato. “Plato wanted to return to the City as mayor, launching his campaign last year at a Table View Church later implicated in the case of fraud and money laundering of Covid relief funds presently running against Councillor Nora Grose. “A seat on Winde's cabinet would provide Plato with a suitable soft landing,” Herron said. In a letter dispatched to the Standing Committee on Community Safety chairperson Regan Allen yesterday, ANC spokesperson on Community Safety, Mesuli Kama said serious allegations have been levelled against Fritz which warranted an urgent meeting to be convened which “would be in the best interest of the committee to get full  details and chart a way forward”. Philisa Abafazi Bethu director and anti-GBV activist, Lucinda Evans, said she was “utterly shocked” to learn of the allegations against Fritz. “The question we should ask the premier is what is he going to do if these allegations pans out to be what we are thinking and not speculating. “If it is alleged that the misconduct is of a sexual nature and there are victims then my first question is could we expect that cases will be opened and will the (provincial government) support the victim?” said Evans.