CAPE TOWN - The Western Cape continues to see a decline in new Covid-19 cases, hospital admissions and test positivity, showing it is on track to exit the fourth wave. This was according to Premier Alan Winde, who said the province will have officially exited the fourth wave once it reaches 600 daily new cases based on the seven-day moving average. “We currently have an average of 1 100 cases, nearly half the average number of cases last week, which was 2 013,” Winde said. According to the South African Covid-19 Modelling Consortium (SACMC), Gauteng is the first province to have officially exited the fourth wave, but the Western Cape is seeing a decrease in incident cases. The SACMC is predicting far fewer new cases in the coming week, Winde said. Hospital admissions now stand at 174 new admissions daily. This is a decrease from 217 last week, while the proportion of positive Covid-19 cases has now declined to 28%, down from 40% last week. The number of deaths, based on a seven-day moving average, is 31 and comparably lower than previous waves. "This shows us that we are on track to exit the fourth wave. Continue to practise the lifesaving behaviours that we have learnt to stop the spread throughout the pandemic so that we can prevent any spikes in infections,” Winde said. He noted that on Wednesday, while attending the launch of Africa’s Access to Advanced Healthcare (AAAH) Coalition, a journalist questioned President Cyril Ramaphosa on when he intended for the national state of disaster to come to an end. “In responding, the president singled me out as driving the issue, yet failed to clearly outline a road map going forward – noting only that this would be considered by the National Coronavirus Command Council. This is despite the fact that our exit from the fourth wave is now imminent. “Since October last year, we have called on the national government to create a clear road map, guiding us out of the national state of disaster so that we can focus on the second pandemic of unemployment. “Existing restrictions on gatherings and events now serve only to undermine our province’s tourism and hospitality sectors – key sectors which are needed to drive job creation following the aftermath of the pandemic," Winde said.  Cape Times