CAPE TOWN – District Six’s oldest claimant, Aunty Shariefa Khan died on Wednesday morning after experiencing difficulty breathing for a number of hours. At the age of 100 years, her loving family was by her bedside. The District Six Working Committee (D6WC) said Khan remained unrestituted. “Mrs Khan would have turned 101 on April 25, 2022. “Last April, she signed the papers to receive her new apartment in District 6, as part of Phase 3 of the restitution process. “Her family spent some months making the unit more comfortable and disabled-friendly for her. “They and other families of very old or disabled claimants were assisted by HeartFM and its listeners, among others. “Mrs Khan never received final permission to move in, as the national government is still in the process of fixing safety concerns and defects in the buildings. “The D6WC would like to extend its heartfelt condolences to the Khan family and share its utter grief and disappointment with not seeing Mrs Khan’s final wish of restitution being fulfilled. The D6WC championed her cause and fought hard for her final restitution which was fraught with difficulty. We thank Mrs Khan for fighting the good fight until the end and supporting our court case which will bring restitution to many families like hers. The D6WC remains committed to seeking restitution for Mrs Khan’s children who are also elderly,” it said. Khan’s janazah was expected to take place on Wednesday morning at 11:30am in Elsies River at her daughter’s home. Also known as "Mama" or "Aunty Riefa", Khan was born in 1921 in Vryburg in the North West. Her family arrived in Cape Town in 1928, and lived in Muizenberg and later Kensington where her father had the first halaal butchery in the area, before she married her husband Dawood Khan, an Indian migrant living in District Six. Her parents were also Indian migrants. Her father was Ahmad Khan Deshmukh of Upper Tudil and her mother was Gadija Mallak, whose father was a Kokni merchant from the Shriwardhan area. Cape Times