CAPE TOWN - The National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) is hopeful that the installation of trackers into a number of pink rescue buoys will turn the tide on the continued theft of the lifesaving tool. The organisation installed the trackers at the start of the festive season in December last year. Two pink buoys have been retrieved in the last three days. “They were taken off their poles and abandoned, one pink buoy was found in a ditch and another on a playground,” said NSRI drowning manager Andrew Ingram. Out of the 1200 pink buoys situated across the country at beaches, rivers and dams around the country, an estimated 10% were stolen throughout the year, with theft increasing to 15% over the festive season. In Jeffreys Bay alone eight pink Rescue buoys were stolen in recent weeks. To date the pink buoys have saved 85 lives and won the International Maritime Rescue Federation, in the innovation and technology category in 2018, Ingram said. He said there appeared to be two main reasons why these important floatation devices are easily targeted. “Children will take them off to play with them because they are pink and look attractive. They are either unaccompanied children or their parents have not educated them to not play with first gear equipment.” “The second category is generally about 18-30 years old, who very often (are at the beach) on a Friday or Saturday night and there is often alcohol involved,” Ingram said. The roll-out of the NSRI Pink Rescue Buoys was established in November 2017. The initiative came to fruition through corporate and public donations and is part of an extensive National Drowning Prevention Campaign started by the organisation that year. The deployment of the Pink Rescue buoys is done with the cooperation of City Councils, municipalities and communities in an effort to make the waters safer and to prevent drowning incidents. “The key to this campaign is, the Pink Rescue buoys are put out there as public rescue equipment for the community by the community. And when that community looks after them, lives will be saved and the buoys will not be stolen,” Ingram said. Cape Times