CAPE TOWN - A dog found severely injured after being hit by a train near Kalk Bay, is recovering well following his rescue by two friends last week. At about 5.30pm on a blisteringly hot Friday, Megan Newey and her friend discovered the injured dog near the train tracks while making their way to Wolley’s tidal pool in Kalk Bay. Newey said the dog, who they have named Tracker, was laying on an open field between the bridge and the railway line. Despite his severe injuries, the dog moved and laid in the middle of the railway. Newey said as she got closer, Tracker was very lethargic and covered in ants. Tracker’s leg and tail had been amputated in the accident. “I took my towel off and covered him with it, I asked my friend to help me carry him to my car and I phoned Wendy Scheepers because I know she works for TEARS.” “It is so sad because it looked like he had given up on life, as if he did not want to live anymore.” Scheepers, the marketing manager at TEARS, quickly phoned the Noordhoek Veterinary Clinic who had a vet on duty at that time who began to prepare for surgery. On arrival, veterinarian Dr Tracy Dicks, TEARS Operations Manager, Mandy Store and veterinary technicians were waiting in the parking area to rush Tracker straight into a three hour operation. They found the three year old male dog’s leg completely amputated and his tail being held on by matted hair. X-rays revealed that Tracker had also suffered a broken pelvis but that his spine was still intact. After several hours in surgery, Tracker made it through and was admitted to TEARS. That night, Tracker ate chicken and drank water. The next day, he urinate - all good signs to his carers. Tracker then moved in with TEARS Kennel Manager Luke Kruyt to be in an attentive foster home while he heals and learns how to be a three-legged dog. “He is still busy healing and is recovering well. Tracker is off from his IV pain medication, he is a bit bewildered and still trying to learn how to be a three legged dog but he is enjoying all the attention we are giving him,” said Scheepers. She added that the dog will eventually need some physio. Once he has been rehabilitated and medically stable, Tracker will be put up for adoption. On average 1057 animals are brought into TEARS veterinary clinic every month for medical emergencies, admissions and/or treatments. TEARS depend on donors to fund their veterinary outreach work. To donate toward the care of Tracker and other animals at TEARS, visit: www.tears.org.za/donate Cape Times