CAPE TOWN - Alleged arsonist, Zandile Christmas Mafe, started his 30-day mental observation at Valkenberg Psychiatric Hospital after a bed was secured for him on Thursday. Mafe appeared at Cape Town Magistrates’ Court earlier on Thursday, where the presiding officer made the order for him to be admitted for observation. Mafe faces charges of two counts of arson, contravention of the Terrorist Act, and housebreaking with intent to steal and theft in relation to the fire in Parliament. “State prosecutor Advocate Adenaan Gelderbloem advised Mafe's legal representative of the latest developments through an email yesterday afternoon and called this morning to confirm receipt of the email. On Tuesday, the NPA successfully argued for the accused to be referred to the psychiatric hospital for mental observation following a diagnosis and recommendation by district surgeon Dr Zelda van Tonder that Mafe suffered from paranoid schizophrenia. “The defence attempted to oppose the state application but failed, and the accused threatened to go on hunger strike if his bail application was not heard. He protested that there was nothing wrong with him. The state argued that it cannot be blackmailed or held at ransom by the accused,” said National Prosecuting Authority in the Western Cape spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila. The State had argued that there is no guarantee that Mafe would be granted bail and should be referred for observation. Magistrate Zamekile Mbalo agreed with the state that there was prima facie evidence that the accused suffered from a mental challenge, and the matter has been postponed to February 11 for a report from Valkenberg Hospital to confirm if Mafe is fit to stand trial and confirm if he would be able to follow court proceedings. “Earlier, the NPA told the court that it withdraws the charge of destruction of essential infrastructure while adding a new charge of the Contravention of Section 5 of Act 33 of 2004, Protection of Constitutional Democracy Against Terrorist and Related Activities Act,” said Ntabazalila.  Cape Times