CAPE TOWN - About 600 people have been displaced after a fire destroyed 152 homes at Masiphumelele at the weekend. The City’s Fire and Rescue spokesperson, Jermaine Carelse said no injuries or fatalities were reported. “At 1.23am on Saturday, the City’s Fire and Rescue Service was alerted that there were informal structures on fire in Masemola Street. Fifteen fire fighting appliances from various Fire Stations; and 50 firefighters extinguished the blaze by 7.24am,” said Carelse. Resident Ayanda Jaco said he lost everything including his work uniform and ID documents in the fire.  “I was just coming from my friend’s house when I saw a fire.  “I quickly ran into my house to see what I could take out but unfortunately everything was burnt including my work uniform, ID card, and other important documents.  “I thank my friend who forced me to visit him after I had said I was too tired. He came all the way from his house to fetch me so that I could celebrate his sister’s birthday with him, if it was not for him I could have died as I had planned to sleep in,” said Jaco. A team from humanitarian organisation Gift of the Givers prepared hot meals for residents, along with bottled water, blankets and baby care packs as an initial intervention. “Cape Town disaster management contacted Gift of the Givers for assistance for a desperate community following a fire in the early hours of this morning in Masiphumelele, Noordhoek. The preliminary assessment indicates that 152 informal homes have been destroyed and 600 people displaced. Our vehicles are packed and ready. Gift of the Givers had assisted communities at Masiphumelele on previous occasions,” said the organisation’s founder Dr Imtiaz Sooliman. Mayco member for human settlements Malusi Booi, said due to National Government budget cuts, the City is no longer able to offer the extra service of providing fire and flood kits to residents outside of declared disasters. “The City Human Settlements Department is assisting the families who were affected by the fire, which ravaged informal structures in Masiphumelele over the weekend.  “The verification process of the affected residents has been completed and the City’s Solid Waste Management Department completed their assessments and will clear the debris on site. The City appeals to members of the public to please donate essential items such as blankets, baby food, nappies, baby milk and non-perishable food to the organisation Living Hope in Masiphumelele. Gift of the Givers is also assisting,” said Booi. “We are grateful for the speedy response of the City’s Fire Services who managed to bring the fire under control and stop any further damage in Masiphumelele. We ask residents to continue being vigilant by ensuring their candles and fires are extinguished before going to sleep in the evening, so that we prevent fires in our communities,” said Booi. To donate to affected residents, contact the Living Hope organisation on: 082 465 9067. Cape Times