CAPE TOWN – Waste pickers deserve more credit from society for the role they play in diverting recyclables away from landfills, says Institute of Waste Management of Southern Africa (IWMSA) vice president Mpendulo Ginindza. “Instead of getting annoyed, people should be thankful for the difference these pickers make in our environment and economy. “According to the CSIR, in 2014 alone the informal pickers saved municipalities between R309 million and R748 million in landfill airspace. This is by simply diverting recyclables away from landfills,” Ginindza said. According to the Waste Pickers Association, South Africa has more than 90 000 waste pickers. Ginindza said it was estimated that a single picker could divert between 16 and 24 tons each year. “Plastics SA reported in 2018 that the majority of recyclable plastic collected were sourced from formal collectors. Formal collectors typically source their recyclables from waste pickers and buy-and-drop centres,” Ginindza said. A waste picker is defined as someone who collects reusable and recyclable materials from residential and commercial waste bins, landfill sites and open spaces in order to revalue them and generate an income. Whether waste pickers work in a rural or urban environment – the fact remains that this is no easy job. Ginindza said she interviewed a woman waste picker from Limpopo about her typical day. “She told me competition is rife, and she has to wake up at 4am to be on site by 5am. When she arrives, she sorts the waste and weighs the materials. When there is enough, she transports it to the drop off centre for formal collection. “They are the first people on the road early in the morning. They sort through bins and carry the heavy waste on their trollies. Often, they don’t have the proper equipment, and environmental conditions are not safe. Not to mention what they come across in the bins,” she said. Though the industry itself is regulated, Ginindza pointed out that many waste pickers were informal workers. “A number of municipalities have attempted to integrate informal workers, but with mixed success rates,” she said. The Waste Pickers Integration Guideline for South Africa, produced by the Department of Environment, Forestry and Fisheries in 2020, provides guidance to municipalities and industry on measures to improve their working conditions. “In May 2021, the Extended Producer Responsibility Regulations came into effect. Its purpose is support, recognition and compensation for the work that is done by pickers along the waste value chain,” Ginindza said. The public can assist by making life easier for waste pickers. “Start by separating your waste at home and at work. Avoid putting dangerous or hazardous items that they may come across when looking for recyclables in your bins. And of course – be more tolerant and patient on the road or on the street the next time you meet a waste picker at work,” Ginindza said. Cape Times