CAPE TOWN - The Western Cape’s Vaxi Trokkie (vaccination truck) has officially hit the road in the Northern and Tygerberg regions. The truck made its first stop in Delft this week, where it was stationed at a local shop, before moving to Belhar. Delray Fourie, the Northern and Tygerberg district vaccination lead, said her team aimed to increase vaccination uptake in the Delft community and surrounding areas. “We are excited to bring this service to our communities in partnership with our local NPOs, Accelerate Cape Town and Old Mutual. “While we have entered a new year, Covid-19 was not left behind in 2021. “We urge all residents to make use of the opportunity to get vaccinated or to take up their booster doses. These vaccinations have proven to be effective in protecting you from becoming severely ill.” Bonita Thomas was one of the first residents to access vaccination from the vaxi truck. The 39-year-old shared her excitement after receiving her booster Pfizer dose and brought her daughter, as well as her nephews and nieces to receive their jabs. “I am here today because our schools have reopened and our children need to return to school. They come into contact with many children and I believe getting vaccinated is the best thing for them to do. We are doing this for our own safety as well.” Wayden Williams joined his aunt at the vaccination site. The 12-year-old shared the special reason why he decided to get his jab. “I don’t want to become very sick, and I want to protect my family, especially my granny. I also like playing football, so I decided to get my vaccine to keep safe so that I can continue playing.” Like other mobile vaccination outreaches, the vaccination truck has improved access to the vaccine as residents can receive their jabs closer to home and won’t need to travel.  Various Vaxi Taxis (ambulance-like vehicles) have been operational in communities in Mitchells Plain (Tafelsig, Samora Machel, Eastridge), Klipfontein (Philippi, Kosovo community) and Stellenbosch (Kayamandi, Idas Valley, Klapmuts).  This month the Vaxi Taxi will also go to communities in the Garden Route, Central Karoo (Murraysburg and KwaMandlenkosi), as well as communities in Delft, Belhar, Philippi, Weltevreden Valley, Tafelsig, Kayamandi, Klapmuts, Idas Valley, Groendal and Kylemore. Cape Times