CAPE TOWN - The body of a man who was reported missing at the weekend, was discovered floating in the Worcester municipal swimming pool in De La Bat Street on Monday morning. According to a statement by the Breede Valley Municipality (BVM), the man had had gone missing while visiting the facility with his family on Saturday  “During closure of the facility, the deceased’s family members noticed that he was missing. Subsequently, the family proceeded to ask the lifeguard on duty whether the deceased was still within the premises. "According to the initial report received by the local SAPS, the lifeguard conducted a visual search of the swimming pool in order to ascertain whether the deceased was perhaps located within the pool. “In addition, a search of the premises was conducted to ascertain whether the deceased was on it at the time of closure. During an internal municipal investigation launched into this tragic event, it was confirmed that the lifeguard conducted a physical search of the pool by diving into it. "Unfortunately, the search did not yield any positive leads. Subsequently, the family returned home to continue the search for the deceased, while the staff continued to carry out their duties of cleaning the pool, cleaning the premises and preparing it for operations the following day,” said municipal spokesperson JP Myburg. The family of the deceased returned to the premises on Sunday morning and informed the lifeguard they had not heard from the deceased and requested the team to check the premises again. “The lifeguard informed the family that a search will be conducted and proceeded to check the 16 feet (5 meter) deep end of the pool. "Again, no positive lead and/or identification of the alleged drowning at the time, could be made. The family was subsequently advised to report the situation to the local SAPS. "The family of the deceased reported the 30-year-old man missing and opened a missing person report at the Zwelethemba Satellite police station the same day. Upon closure of business, the premises was once again cleaned and prepared for operations for the next day, hence the fact that water quality had been extremely good despite many visitors to the pool,” said Myburg. At 7:10am on Monday the caretaker of the swimming pool was informed  a body was floating in the swimming pool. The local SAPS and all role players were informed and dispatched to the scene. The body was removed from the pool and was later identified as the missing person. “Not only has this tragic event caused significant trauma to the bereaved family, but also to the staff employed at the De La Bat Swimming pool. All staff, particularly the lifeguard on duty, are aptly experienced, trained and performed their duties in accordance with the prescribed protocol. “The said lifeguard is one of the best within the municipal region with 12 years of experience at this particular pool. The supervisor on duty also boasts 15 years of experience. Coupled to this, the municipality takes great pride in its safety record at its swimming pools, having only recorded 1 fatality in the past 10 years. However, the municipality strives to entirely prevent fatalities as a whole, therefore, reiterating the absolute shock and sadness upon identifying the deceased,” said Myburg. Myburg said BVM has pledged its full co-operation with all authorities involved in the ongoing investigation into this unfortunate event. Myburg said “immediate amendments to protocols are being considered to mitigate the risks associated with similar occurrences in future”. Cape Times