CAPE TOWN - The Special Investigative Unit (SIU) has set its sights on reviewing and setting aside the R54.3 million contract the Western Cape Education Department (WCED) awarded to service provider, Masiqhame Trading 1057 CC for the supply of personal protective equipment (PPE). This was contained in the final SIU report on its investigation into procurement by all spheres of government of goods, works and services associated with the Covid-19 pandemic. The SIU was alerted by a member of the public regarding concerns about the award of contracts by WCED to Masiqhame. The payments to Masiqhame amounted to R111 826 721, according to the SIU report. The SIU said its investigation focused on the procurement of hand sanitisers and related items amounting to R73 724 348, and the procurement of cloth masks, amounting to R54 353 082. The SIU found the procurement process followed by the department for cloth masks was irregular, citing that the department had provided Masiqhame with multiple opportunities to alter its price, yet failed to afford other service providers the same opportunity. The SIU obtained evidence that suggested that three senior officials of the WCED may be guilty of misconduct. “The investigation of the SIU has thus far revealed that the officials concerned, committed acts and/or may have been responsible for omissions in respect of the procurement of, and contracting for PPE and related goods and services during the national state of disaster… which conduct or omissions the SIU submits amounts to misconduct, dereliction of duty and/or negligence in the performance of their official duties. “The SIU issued papers from the Special Tribunal on November 19, 2021, with a view to review the contract to the value of R54 353 082 awarded to the service provider, Masiqhame, and set it aside. The papers were subsequently served on the respondents,” the report read.  WCED spokesperson Bronagh Hammond said: “The WCED has received the report and has referred it to the Department of the Premier for recommendation to the Head of Department on what action should be taken, if any.” Good Party secretary-general Brett Herron said they had for a long time been raising questions about the excessive spending by the WCED on the service provider. “This service provider operates from a residential address in Edgemead, has no website or social media presence yet received nearly R400 million in business from the WCED alone. The MEC has doggedly defended the business done with Masiqhame Trading and the Premier should remove her from office for failing to apply common sense. “Nearly 99% of the WCED PPE spend went to Masiqhame Trading. Any reasonable person in a position of authority would have been concerned about the extent of the spending with this entity. Any reasonable person in a position of authority would have been concerned about the extent of the spending with this entity,” said Herron. ANC education spokesperson Khalid Sayed said they will refer the SIU findings to the Legislature Standing Committee on Public Accounts (SCOPA) for full investigation into the possible capture of the WCED by a single supplier. “This is unacceptable. It is yet another example of the mismanagement that goes on under the nose of MEC Debbie Schäfer and is another reason why she should be fired. She bears political responsibility for this irregular conduct,” said Sayed. Criminals should know that the free-for-fall is over, said DA national spokesperson Siviwe Gwarube when commenting on the release of the SIU report. “A strong message needs to be sent to those who seek to profit off and loot the State. The only way to secure South Africa’s future is to ensure that the wheels of justice continue turning. The corrupt and greedy have tried to make the country a lawless wasteland where the rule of law and vulnerable people can be trampled. This must not be allowed to continue,” she said. Cape Times