CAPE TOWN - An Independent legal counsel may be appointed to conduct an external investigation into sexual assault allegations made against suspended Community Safety MEC Albert Fritz. Western Cape Premier Alan Winde on Tuesday afternoon said that lawyers representing the province have approached the State Attorney, instructing them that independent legal counsel be appointed to conduct the investigation. “We are currently awaiting confirmation from the State Attorney on the instruction, which we expect to receive imminently. I will provide the details of the appointee once confirmed.” Winde said he was made aware of the allegations by a third party on November 23. “I immediately requested affidavits from the persons directly involved so that I could take action. “Since that date I have ensured that the complainants were afforded due care and empathy and that no pressure was placed on them, noting the nature of their complaints. “Earlier this month, I was informed that the complainants were now ready to hand over their affidavits. “I met with them 11 days ago, accepted their accounts, and consulted with legal services on the next steps to take. “In the interim, further individuals indicated that they would like to come forward too, and legal services took their accounts down. “Following my meeting with the complainants, and after receiving legal advice, I felt I had sufficient information to immediately suspend the minister and request an independent investigation into this matter. “I am not in a position to lay criminal charges currently, but I cannot discount the prospect of this happening, should the investigation by this independent counsel result in advice indicating that it is necessary or appropriate for me to do so,” Winde said. He further asked for the identities of the survivors to be withheld. “These complainants have brought these allegations to me under the strictest of confidence. To publish their names, against their will, will only add to the very serious stress and anxiety that they are feeling now, and possibly, deter others from coming forward in similar cases in future. “The well-being and protection of the complainants is a top concern. It should be all of ours too.” Cape Times