CAPE TOWN - Accused murderer, police officer Richard Smith, will return to court next week after the matter was postponed at the Piketberg Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday. Smith, an off-duty police officer, is accused of murdering his girlfriend Natasha Booise after he allegedly shot her in front of family, including her 10-year-old son, at about 7pm in Piketberg Main Road on Sunday. National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila said the matter has been postponed to January 7 for Smith’s legal representative to come on the record. Rural and Farmworkers Development Organisation director, Billy Claassen attended court proceedings alongside community members who had petitioned and picketed for no bail to be granted to Smith. “The community of Piketberg and surrounding towns are up in arms. They went to court in their numbers to show support for the family of Booise. We will march to court again on Friday and hand over a Memorandum and Petition to the National Prosecution Authority, Police and the Magistrate. “We are aware of the fact that this is a high profile case and we want the state to oppose bail. This is also gender-base violence and a serious crime. We cannot allow people like him to be released in our communities. He is a danger to our communities. He was supposed to be the beacon of hope for distressed communities and someone who needed to protect our women and children,” said Claassen. Ipid spokesperson Grace Langa had previously said Smith handed himself over to police shortly after the incident. “It is alleged that on (Sunday) Booise was walking with her friends and family members in Main Rd, Piketberg when an off duty police official came from behind, driving his private vehicle. She then turned around and walked back to the police official. “Booise stood outside at the driver’s door and she was seen holding the hands of the police official while the member was still seated in the driver’s seat. The member then cocked his service pistol and fired multiple shots in the direction of the now-deceased while she was fleeing from the member,” Langa had said. Cape Times