CAPE TOWN - Family, friends and residents bade farewell to slain Gugulethu grandmother Charlotte Madolo, found brutally murdered in her home, during a funeral service at the weekend. Mourners including family and residents of NY 132 gathered at a hall in New Crossroads on Sunday to pay their last respects to the 85-year-old. Madolo’s body was found by her grandchildren, tied to her bed on February 19, with her right eye gouged out and a scar over her other eye. At the time of the incident other family members were attending a funeral just one street away. A 48-year-old man was arrested in connection with the murder the next day. “The way she was taken away from us was gruesome. No family should go through what we did. On the day of the incident I couldn’t even go into the room to check the body after the children had described how she looked,” said Madolo’s distraught daughter, Lindelwa Bovana. “She suffered from epilepsy but was still strong. I think she might have fought for her life hence she was tied up. Mama is resting in peace now and we are hoping for justice to be swift.” Bovana described her mother as a big hearted woman who was respected in her community because she was kind. Two days before Madolo was laid to rest, a memorial service for another murdered woman from the area, Nomahlubi Mrubata, 54, was held. Children and women rights advocacy group, Ilitha Labantu also hosted a motorcade in partnership with police, the Community Policing Forum and other civil organisations in the streets of Gugulethu. This was to remember victims of femicide and to raise awareness of GVB. The demonstration started at the police station and proceeded to NY43 where the body of Mrubata was discovered naked near a canal, before proceeding to Madolo’s home. Ilitha Labntu’s spokesperson Siya Monakali said he hoped the wheels of justice will not be slow to turn. “Ilitha Labantu strongly believes that it is through our collective effort that we can effectively address this scourge of violence against women and children that is plaguing our homes and community,” he said. Cape Times