CAPE TOWN - A Southern Cape father says his family is fighting “fiercely” to prove his daughter’s innocence, as she faces a life imprisonment sentence in Thailand for alleged international drug trafficking. From George, Ashley Oosthuizen, 22, had moved to Thailand after getting an opportunity to be a kindergarten teacher on the island of Koh Samui after matriculating in 2018. It is there that she is said to have met a 32-year-old American teacher, who soon became her boyfriend. In a letter sent from Ashley’s father, Andre Oosthuizen, which was apparently drafted by the boyfriend, Ashley had started working at his restaurant when a package was delivered on October 8, 2020, and she received it. The package contained MDMA, which later led to her arrest. “Then they took her away to some black box interrogation dungeon somewhere on the island where she was interrogated under threat of harm and without a lawyer or interpreter present, and where she was then forced to sign documents that were written in Thai which later turned out to be a confession of her guilt,” the alleged letter from the boyfriend read. Andre said it was a big shock for the family when they learnt of the arrest. “She has no criminal record and is a loving child who can make friends with anyone. She was brought up very disciplined,” he said. Andre’s  legal representative, Lizelle Martin, said Ashley received a death penalty sentence, which was commuted to life in prison on August 18, 2021, for international drug trafficking in MDMA. She said they had applied to appeal. “Ashley's appeal was filed with the Court of Appeals. Due to Covid-19 restrictions and the process in Thailand, the appeal might take anything up to 18 months. “I am very positive about the appeal and trust that justice will prevail and Ashley will be set free for a crime she did not commit. “Ms Oosthuizen has been moved from Koh Samui Prison to Nakhon Si Thammarat Central Prison (south of Thailand). She was moved to Nakhon Si Thammarat Central Prison on December 29, 2021, where she spent three weeks in quarantine. Currently Ashley can only receive a 10-minute video chat with direct family once a month,” she said. Martin added: “We are fighting fiercely to prove Ashley's innocence. Ashley is just still a child; she is all alone and she is only 22 years old. It is of course very traumatic for her family, but everybody is staying positive and hopeful for her release.“ Department of International Relations and Co-operation (Dirco) spokesperson Lunga Ngqengelele said the department was aware of Oosthuizen’s arrest in Thailand. “The department as well as the South African Embassy in Bangkok is providing her and her family with the consular assistance applicable to such cases. “Due to the sensitivity and respect for both individuals and family rights Dirco only communicates with the detainee and designated family members regarding South African citizens in custody abroad,” he said. Cape Times