CAPE TOWN - As the rotational timetable comes to an end and schools return to daily attendance on Monday, the ability of schools to physically cope with the change has come under the spotlight. Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga on Sunday provided an update on the state of readiness of schools, saying the department had met with the provincial heads of departments, school governing bodies, and teacher unions and associations. “From all the meetings, the state of school infrastructure and the feasibility of accommodating all these learners under the current circumstances were raised. “Among others, there is a question of the delivery of stationery and textbooks, especially in the Eastern Cape. But they also raised a question of overcrowding, which is a problem we went into the Covid-19 pandemic with,” she said. Motshekga said the department was currently in talks with the Treasury to resolve the matters, taking into account some of the challenges that had existed before the pandemic. “We are going to start with the existing infrastructure, such as storm-damaged schools, and the Treasury is working with the Department of Public Works and Infrastructure and other agencies in the government to make sure that they can support us as a sector, because we will not cope with all the challenges ourselves,” she said. She said that, in preparation for the return of all students, the provincial departments of education had communicated with parents to make sure they understood the adjusted school timetables and assessment programmes.  The department was also addressing challenges associated with school infrastructure, the continued provision of transport for pupils, school nutrition, and curriculum recovery plans. Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer previously welcomed the return to full-time school attendance and asked whether mask-wearing for children should be reconsidered. Motshekga said the department encouraged everyone in the sector to get vaccinated, and for teachers to get a booster shot. “We also need to make sure that we encourage our young people to get vaccinated. We are told that of the 7.7 million qualifying learners, only 1.2 million have vaccinated, and in the past 24 hours 15 000 young people have vaccinated.  “But we call on parents and caregivers to encourage young people who qualify to go for vaccination,” Motshekga said. Cape Times