CAPE TOWN - For the month of love, the Mdzananda Animal Clinic in Khayelitsha is encouraging members of the public to show some love to homeless pets in need. Their #BeMyValentine campaign features dogs up for adoption looking for sponsorship to make their Valentine’s Day a happy one. “Valentine’s Day has become an extremely commercialised event with people spending large amounts of money on gifts, chocolates and flowers. This year we are encouraging people to allow a homeless pet to be their Valentine by sponsoring them and showing them some love,” said Mdzananda’s fundraising and communications manager Marcelle du Plessis. Donations made to a chosen Valentine dog will help the organisation to care for them until they are able to find permanent homes. “The dogs up for adoption have been at our clinic’s shelter facility for weeks or months. Some have gone through a lot in their lives and need extra love,” said du Plessis. “Clyde, for example, is a Pit Bull who was handed over with his sibling six months ago. His sibling has gone to a foster home but no one has shown interest in adopting him. It is quite heartbreaking. He is so desperate for love that he jumps and climbs all over you when you visit him, trying to lap up any attention. He’s waiting for a home that can love him forever and where he can be an only dog and have a big garden to play in.” There are a variety of sponsoring options including: R50 – Get rid of those nasty fleas and ticks – we want cuddles instead R100 – Have your Valentine vaccinated to keep them healthy and strong R200 – Spoil your Love with delicious food for two weeks R450 – Give your valentine great meals for a whole month R500 – Spay or neuter your Valentine – love is enough, no babies needed To sponsor a pet for Valentine's Day visit www.mdzananda.co.za to see all the pets needing sponsorship, contact marcelle@mdzananda.co.za or make a donation to Mdzananda Animal Clinic, Standard Bank, Account number: 075595710, Branch: Rondebosch, Branch Code: 025009, Reference: Pet'sName +YourName. All pets are also up for adoption. If you have a human Valentine of your own, you can also sponsor a pet in their name, and the Mdzananda team will send them a special e-card letting them know. Send your name, Valentine’s name and email address, the pet you have sponsored and donation proof to marcelle@mdzananda.co.za. Cape Times