CAPE TOWN - As the Western Cape High Court on Thursday heard arguments by West Coast fishing communities and geoscience data company Searcher, a decision is yet to be made on whether or not the company will be interdicted from continuing its seismic survey pending a legal challenge of the permit it was granted to do so. West Coast communities and environmental activists had approached the court for the interdict arguing that Searcher was obliged to consult them which it did not do. They also argue that Searcher was obliged to obtain environmental authorisation in terms of both the MPRDA and the National Environmental Management Act 107 of 1998 (NEMA), when applying for its permit, or before it commenced its seismic survey activities. Until the review is determined, they say Searcher should not be allowed to continue seismic blasting in South African waters. “Continued blasting will cause significant and irreparable harm to marine and bird life. That infringes the constitutional and customary rights of coastal communities, which includes their environmental rights, their livelihoods, their food security, and their cultural beliefs. The balance of convenience overwhelmingly favours the applicants. Searcher pleads only profit as its loss of harm. Foreign profit must bow to constitutional rights. Searcher’s attempts to pitch development investment against the environment and communities’ rights fundamentally misunderstands the nature of “sustainable development” that our Constitution requires,” court papers read. Searcher argued there was no “hard evidence as to the effect of the survey” and if the interdict were granted they would have to cancel the project in its entirety, resulting in a loss of approximately R405 million. “An interdict is an extraordinary remedy, which should not be lightly granted. Despite this, the papers in this matter disclose a remarkable inversion of the normal order of enquiry. They concede at the outset the lack of any hard evidence as to the effect of the survey. They admit the survey takes place in substantially the same area as intensive commercial fishing operations, long conducted in South Africa. They admit that their primary focus on snoek extends at its maximum to half the distance from the shoreline where the survey commences,” court papers read. “Searcher shows not only two decades already of seismic surveys conducted in South Africa but that between 2007 and last year no less than 21 were conducted – 2272 internationally in just the past 8 years, 44 currently under way.” Cape Times