CAPE TOWN - A pitbull rescued from dogfighting in Mitchells Plain is undergoing treatment in the care of the Cape of Good Hope (CoGH) SPCA. The organisation’s inspectors on Tuesday swooped on a Tafelsig property following an anonymous tip-off. Chief inspector Jaco Pieterse and inspector Mark Syce traced one of the dogs involved in the fight. On arrival, they discovered that the dog was not kept on the owner’s property but on a neighbouring property in a confined structure. The rescued dog is being treated by the SPCA, and the organisation’s on-site animal behaviourist is expected to conduct a full behavioural and temperament assessment.  The whereabouts of a second dog, a brown pitbull, are unknown. The CoGH SPCA said criminal charges would be pursued against the owner. “We are still in the process of compiling the docket. The case will be registered as soon as the process of evidence gathering has been completed and the docket is submitted to the SAPS,” said CoGH SPCA spokesperson Belinda Abraham.  “Aside from satisfying a deviant and violent bloodlust, cowardly individuals who engage in this criminal activity transfer their dogs’ success on to their own identities. A winning dog will raise an owner’s ‘street cred’, elevate their egos, earn them money and breed them more victims,” she said. The organisation is offering a reward of R5 000 to anyone with information that leads to the arrest and successful prosecution of those involved in dogfighting. A person found guilty for any involvement in dogfighting is liable to a fine of R80 000 and/or 2 years’ imprisonment with a criminal record. Abraham said it was important for the public to be educated on the effects these incidents have on the animals and communities. “Dogfighting is not only a problem of animal cruelty but also a problem of a criminal sub-culture. This can involve other criminal activities such as illegal gambling, drug-related crimes, theft as well as contributing to the destruction of communities.” To report animal cruelty, email inspectorate@spca-ct.co.za or call 021 700 4158/9 or 083 326 1604 after-hours.  Cape Times