CAPE TOWN - Chief Justice nominee and Gauteng High Court Judge President Dustan Mlambo spent most of his day at the Judicial Service Commission (JSC) answering questions about alleged favouritism in his judgments and rumours of sexual harassment against him when he was interviewed for the top job on Thursday. Advocate Dali Mpofu raised the concerns around the “whispering” of the sexual allegations. Asked whether he knew anything about the allegation and from where it had emerged, Judge Mlambo said he was shocked when he heard about it. “There is no substance to that. It is a rumour. It is an insidious rumour. I was waiting for someone to come forward and say I was sexually harassed by Judge President Mlambo,” Judge Mlambo said. “I know as a I sit here, I never sexually harassed anyone.” As this topic unfolded, Mlambo confirmed that he was not given any prior warning that he would be asked about this. It was pointed to him that he had answered no in his form about whether there was anything that could embarrass him if he was appointed as the Chief Justice. While he does not know who his accuser is, no formal complaint in this regard was laid against him. While Judge Mlambo said he had no details regarding the allegation, EFF leader Julius Malema said these rumours were usually from females who aspired to become judges. Judge Mlambo said the purpose of this allegation was “clearly to poison my candidature (as chief justice)”. He said the rumour emerged  “during the whole chief justice process”. He said that a retired judge from the Western Cape phoned him and said that she had heard “something disturbing”. He was told that there was a rumour that he had sexually harassed someone, but the retired judge who phoned him would not give him a name or any more details, he said. “I did not take it further because rumours are difficult to pin. I feel pained about this rumour and the fact that it came out during my interview,” Judge Mlambo said. Mpofu said such a serious allegation should be dealt with during the interview as if it would be a massive embarrassment for the JSC if these allegations were found to be true if and after he’s appointed to head the judiciary. Mpofu also reminded Judge Mlambo that should the allegations be true, he could face impeachment. Judge Mlambo said he wished his accuser would come forward so that he could deal with the matter. Chairperson of the commission, Deputy Acting SCA President Xola Petse, late Thursday afternoon, ruled that questions and answers to Judge Mlambo about the sexual harassment rumours must be expunged from the record. Judge Petse said fairness dictated that those rumours must be disregarded as there was no formal complaint and Judge Mlambo was not warned about the questions beforehand. Earlier the debate of the public protector directing other organs of state was the main bone of contention, with Judge Mlambo was in the hot seat. Commissioners peppered Judge Mlambo with questions on the instructions of other organs or state instructing actions be taken against members of the executive such as President Cyril Ramaphosa on the CR17 bank statements. In March Judge Mlambo, leading a full bench of the North Gauteng High Court, slammed Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane for exceeding the scope of her powers, when the CR17 report was referred to the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) for investigation, and for prosecuting those guilty of acts of money laundering that emanated from CR17 funding.  Mkhwebane wanted Parliament to punish Ramaphosa for misleading the House. Judge Mlambo was seen as  being biased toward Ramaphosa. In 2017, the judge dismissed assertions made by the legal team of former president Jacob Zuma that former public protector Thuli Madonsela exceeded her powers in her state capture report. As part of her remedial action, Madonsela had made a binding recommendation that there should be a commission of inquiry to probe the allegations of state capture. Judge Mlambo said that on the facts of the case against Ramaphosa there was no substance. “We dealt with the remedial action first, before we dealt with these two aspects of the case of going to Parliament and going to the NDDP. “In the first part we were clear that there was no evidence supporting this remedial action, therefore it was a non-starter.” Malema quizzed Mlambo on whether the facts were clear and  applicable, and that it was well within the public protector's right to give another organ of state an instruction based on remedial actions. Judge Mlambo argued that the public protector had no right to want feedback after referral to another organ of state. Malema countered by saying that this was only a referral, and that putting a deadline on a probe was only to make sure that the matter was being followed through within a short space of time. “Not necessarily saying charge with racketeering, charge with money laundering,  charge… and this must be done within the next six months. I hear her to be saying, ’I hear you have some role to play here, make further investigations and tell me how you have acted on these matters’,” Malema said. He said that this would be accompanied by evidence and referral to other institutions, adding that he thought that Mkhwebane was insinuating that within a set period of time, Ramaphosa should be prosecuted. Malema further said that he knew that Madonsela would refer matters to the NDPP for further investigation, with which Judge Mlambo agreed. Malema also questioned him on a clip where there was student protest during the days of the Struggle and he was seen to cower under pressure, a point which Judge Mlambo denied.  Justice Mlambo did, however, say that he would be the first to run when police arrived on campus. The judge said what he said in an interview was he had only made a note regarding Advocate Lengane, who had been the organiser of the protest action at the University of Limpopo.