CAPE TOWN - The West Coast Black Business Alliance (BBA) has welcomed the high court ruling in which energy company DNG Energy lost its legal challenge against Turkey-owned energy group Karpowership. The legal challenge brought by DNG Energy, in which it alleged corrupt dealings involving government officials had led to Karpowership winning the bulk of the emergency power contract that is set to supply 2 000 megawatts of power to South Africa’s grid to reduce the risks of load shedding and shortage of electricity, was dismissed and a costs order was made. The government submitted that DNG lost the bid as it didn’t meet its requirements and rejected the allegations made against it. BBA spokesperson in Saldanha, Sammy Claassen, said: “This legal case by DNG Energy Ltd was a major stumbling block that was now removed by the high court. It was unnecessary, fruitless and wasteful to say the least. It actually misled South Africans to believe the lies, false claims and negative publicity in the media and public domain spread by DNG Energy and Green Connection against Karpowership SA and black empowerment movements like the West Coast Black Business and the Eastern Cape Maritime Chamber. “But be that as it may, we have fought them with determination and facts. Karpowership SA is now a closer step to commission sustainable electricity supplies into the Eskom main grid.  “This is a major victory for our country and our people. Eskom needs or requires an extra 2 000MW of electricity to be fed into the national grid as of yesterday. Karpowership SA is able to feed the Eskom grid with immediate effect once the project is commissioned. This will stabilise the national grid, minimise load shedding, save and create jobs, transfer skills and re-energise our economy, sustain community development and empowerment,” said Claassen. “Companies like DNG Energy and its allies like propagandists kept our country, our government, our economy, future development and investment into the South African economy hostage for far to long.” DNG Energy and Karpowership did not respond to enquiries by deadline on Monday. Cape Times