CAPE TOWN - The axe has fallen on the ANC’s Dullah Omar Region (DOR), the party’s  biggest in the Western Cape in terms of membership and population  after it could not prove it would be ready to hold its regional conference in March. “The interim provincial committee (IPC) has however noted the slow progress in the DOR which could not meet the required outcomes of the process as outlined in the December meeting. The IPC, having assessed the performance of the region, is not convinced that in its current state, it would meet the deadline for holding a regional conference. “As such, the IPC has taken a decision to dissolve the Dullah Omar Region and mandated the Interim Provincial Working Committee (IPWC) to look into ensuring that the region is assisted in preparing for its conference. The IPWC will outline a process to be followed in order to strengthen the work of the region in due course,” said convener Lerumo Kalako. The IPC had mandated regions to look into ensuring that branches were prepared, and that intensified recruitment processes were conducted. Last year hundreds of disgruntled ANC members stormed into the ANC’s provincial offices at Constitutional House where the party’s Treasurer Paul Mashatile was locked in meetings with provincial leaders to discuss the matter of coalitions. The region had been given until February to convince the party’s provincial leadership that they would be ready to hold the conference, and “they have failed to do so.” Former DOR chairperson Xolani Sontashe saw the axing coming because a lot of people were already talking about it. “There are no hard feelings I have grown because of the experience and it is an honour. Not everyone gets a privilege to lead an organisation. It has not been easy. We have been humiliated and everything that is hurtful, we went through that. The leaders know why they had disbanded us and I wish them good luck. It is nonsense if we are blamed for the  Local Government Election  performance. “That is people who want to justify actions because they want something. The numbers are declining generally and that can be seen also at the national government and other metros. Things didn’t turn out the way they are today because of us. This is just cheap politicking.” He said he remained in the City council as a councillor. “The leadership of the ANC is yet to decide who will be in its leadership in the caucus.This was my third term and through my leadership there has been stability in the DOR. I will continue to play my role in the renewal of the ANC as an ordinary member,” he said. Another axed member Vuyiso JJ Tyhalisisuhad said a lack of resources, both funds and marketing materials, had a massive impact on their campaign. “This also meant that our Voting District (VD) teams did not have sufficient protective gear and equipment to withstand the harsh weather conditions on the actual day of elections,” said Tyhalisisu. ANC member and Khayelitsha Development Forum chairperson Ndithini Tyhido said the mood of many many members across the metro was celebratory. He is being touted as one of those lining up  for a senior position in the region and has recently been seen with Minister in the Presidency Mondli Gungubele, an ally to President Cyril Ramaphosa, on a number of occasions recently. “The previous leaders strangled hold the organisation. People have to do what pleases them and if that does not happen then you are being purged. This disbandment is very welcomed. Even in the local election there were a lot of grievances. People did not participate freely. We want an ANC that exists for the people and not for itself.” Responding to claims that he has been at the forefront of calling for this disbandment because he is eyeing a position, Tyhido said he would accept a position to be an executive committee member or any position at the top as he believed he would contribute to the organisation. “I would have contested even if the previous leaders were not released and not do it via back doors. I have a right to elect and be elected into a position. “However currently this should not be about who wants to become what, the issue right now is to release the organisation from the stronghold of these men.” Suspended ANC member and Umkhonto weSizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) spokesperson Carl Niehaus called for the disbandment to be challenged. “The disbandment of the Dullah Omar Region in the Western Cape by the Western Cape interim committee is really totally unacceptable and it is my belief that it should be challenged. The exact form of a challenge whether legally or whether within the internal processes of the ANC or both should be discussed and worked on further,” he said. Director at School of Public Leadership at Stellenbosch University, Professor Zwelinzima Ndevu said: “(The region) was a dysfunctional structure with lots of infighting and the integrity of the leadership was always in question. There were issues with how they service their members, the nomination and elections of ward candidates and the committee was seen as not inclusive and serving a certain faction of the boys club.” Cape Times