CAPE TOWN - Classes resumed at Uxolo High School  in Khayelitsha on Monday after parents and learners threatened to disrupt schooling following allegations that more than 12 learners had collapsed, while some apparently had seizures on Friday. This led to chaotic scenes with  parents and allegedly stoning cars at the school, accusing the principal of negligence. They also said the principal did not explain to  parents why some  learners had seizures and some had collapsed. Parent and community activist Mthwalo Mkutswana has called for calm, saying: “This is an uncommon incident whereby more than 12 to 20 learners get sick at the same time at school.  “When I arrived at the scene other learners were already sent home and some were still at school. It was chaotic because the learners with other parents were hitting cars. Then the principal called the police to disperse them. “I tried to speak to the principal of the school regarding the incident,  but whatever he was saying did not make any sense at all. There was nothing tangible in what he said. I was at the school this morning to check if classes are taking place because some learners threatened not to attend classes. Everything was fine without any disruptions,” said Mkutswana. The principal of the school could not be reached for comment. Western Cape Education Department (WCED) spokesperson Bronagh Hammond said: “Some learners reported that they were feeling ill. The school followed the correct procedures and called their parents. There is nothing untoward about this. Schools do not call medical emergency services every time a learner displays symptoms of illness. They are dealt with on a case-by-case basis. The learners were then allegedly upset that their parents were called and proceeded to disrupt the school. “As for what transpired, and why the learners were sick, we cannot confirm. However, if this is spiritually connected, no school can intervene as they are not equipped to do so. “The learners need to address this with their parents and their spiritual healer according to their family rituals,” said Hammond ANC provincial spokesperson on education Khalid Sayed has called for an urgent investigation into what caused the learners to be ill. “This is not the first incident of its kind. One will remember the reports that spread last year of primary school learners in Delft.  “We do not want to fault the principal, but we want to see schools fostering relations with local health facilities so we can see the speedy responses in future occurrences. We wish all the learners a speedy recovery,” said Sayed. Cape Times