CAPE TOWN - Residents have been assured that their tap water was safe to drink following concerns of a “superbug” that’s led to a spike in vomiting and diarrhoea among schoolchildren and some adults.  A parent said she had to fetch her 15-year-old son from Norman Henshilwood High School after he fell sick. “He has been suffering from diarrhoea since Tuesday. We have heard about other children being sick and that it’s a bug, but we are not sure what is the cause. Schools are back in full swing and the spread of bugs is unfortunately inevitable.” Another parent from Observatory said she was advised by a friend to boil tap water before drinking it, or to purchase bottled water, after everyone in her household including children were sick. A teacher from a school in the southern suburbs who asked to not be named said about 10 children had to be sent home after crying over aching stomachs, and at least two teachers were absent every day for the past two weeks. The Progressive Principals' Association (PPA) spokesperson Anthea Adriaanse said they had received reports of gastroenteritis, however schools were not hugely impacted. “The PPA is aware that a few cases of learner and educator illness have been reported at schools over the past weeks.” Western Cape Education Department (WCED) spokesperson Bronagh Hammond said the department was aware of an apparent bug that affected both children and adults. While there have been reports of absenteeism in some schools, Hammond said they didn’t keep data of stats relating to illnesses. “The WCED does not record specific stats from schools regarding reasons for absenteeism aligned to certain illnesses except for Covd-19, which is a requirement in terms of the National State of Disaster.” Mayco member for Water and Sanitation Zahid Badroodien said tap water was safe to drink. “All drinking water samples tested this week at the City’s Scientific Services Laboratory in Athlone complied with the South African National Drinking Water Standard on Acute Health Determinands, and pose no health risk to the public.  “Cape Town currently has chlorine supply at all water treatment plants so the water treatment process has not been affected,” he said. Western Cape Health spokesperson Mark van der Heever said they were seeing many diarrhoea cases of children, but adults were also experiencing this. “Annually, November to March marks a spike in children treated for diarrhoeal disease, and as we enter February the department is advising adults to be extra watchful over children. When your child has a runny tummy, he/she may have diarrhoea. Unclean hands can spread viruses that cause diarrhoea.” Van der Heever said the hot conditions also attributed to symptoms such as diarrhoea and dehydration. Cape Times