Cape Town - A new study conducted on zebrafish by researchers at Stellenbosch University (SU) has shown that the consumption of rooibos tea – and specifically unfermented or green rooibos – may help to reduce anxiety. The beneficial properties of rooibos tea (Aspalathus linearis), a uniquely South African product which grows mainly in the Cederberg area of the Western Cape, range from its caffeine-free and anti-inflammatory nature to the antioxidants, vital minerals and vitamins it contains, as well as its positive role in pain and allergy reduction and in heart health. The recent finding that it also has anxiolytic properties – meaning it prevents or lessens the degree of anxiety a person experiences – makes the tea even more “desirable as a daily supplement”, said Professor Carine Smith, who heads the Medicine Research Laboratories at SU’s Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences (FMHS). The study was conducted at the FMHS’ new Zebrafish laboratory, which uses the tropical zebrafish for medical research, in collaboration with Spanish researchers from the San Jorge University and a local pharmaceutical industry contributor. The university said zebrafish were uniquely suited for the laboratory’s research purposes, because genetically they are quite similar to humans – for more than 80% of the genes known to cause disease in humans, there are similar genes represented in zebrafish. Smith said: “The results of this study mean that we could have uncovered nature’s contribution to treating some of our country’s health problems. It shows that drinking green rooibos tea may have a calming effect if you suffer from anxiety.” Elaborating on the research, Smith added that her group studied the connection between psychological stress and chronic inflammatory disease. “Zebrafish are ideal for drug discovery in this context, as we are able to do thorough testing including not only behavioural assessment and treatment mechanisms of action, but also risks of overdosing and long-term use,” she said. Smith said the study found, among other things, that green rooibos tea could be considered as a “functional brain food” and “may be a good option as a starting ingredient in the development of new nutraceuticals” (A nutraceutical is a pharmaceutical alternative which claims physiological benefits). Smith, who herself consumes rooibos every day, said: “We all know it is an antioxidant and that it has diuretic functions – the latter helping people with high blood pressure – as well as great cardio-vascular benefits. To date, research has not demonstrated a single negative effect of rooibos, therefore long-term consumption can be regarded as generally safe. In the midst of the many unsubstantiated claims of health benefits being made for various supplements, it is satisfying to be able to contribute to the scientific data supporting the use of rooibos tea as a functional food capable of positively affecting health on many fronts.” Cape Times