CAPE TOWN - The Independent Communications Authority of South Africa’s (Icasa) recently proclaimed regulation to enable businesses to port their non-geographic phone numbers (0800; 0860; 0861; 0862 and 087) away from Telkom has been welcomed by industry. Until December, only geographic numbers (011, 021 and so on) and mobile numbers (082, 083, etc) could be ported. This posed a challenge for larger businesses with inbound call centres – if Telkom had a problem, their call centres would go offline. Euphoria Telecom welcomed the move with chief technology officer, Nic Laschinger, saying the industry had been waiting on for 16 years. “Number portability is the mechanism whereby a consumer or business can leave one telecommunications service provider and move to another, taking their number with them. Changing numbers comes with significant costs and inconvenience, especially for larger businesses. The cost of changing all of their marketing collateral and business information – think directory listings, advertisements, business cards and so on. Number portability alleviates this issue. “Competition has now been introduced to a segment of the local telecommunications market that desperately needs it. The call centre industry is a major employer in South Africa, employing some 270 000 people, according to Business Process Enabling South Africa data,” Laschinger said. Separately, Icasa said it received six applications for the International Mobile Telecommunications spectrum licensing process on Monday. These were for Cell C, MTN, Vodacom, Telkom, Rain Networks and Liquid Telecoms. Icasa chairperson Dr Keabetswe Modimoeng expressed his gratitude to all applicants, and encouraged them to continue supporting this process until its completion. “We intend to finally see the licensing of high-demand spectrum through to completion to ensure that all South Africans have access to a wide range of communications services, including data services, at affordable prices,” said Modimoeng. Cape Times