Cape Town – The Cape of Good Hope SPCA says pets need more than just food and water, after removing two pitbull-type dogs abandoned on a property in Kraaifontein following multiple warnings issued to the owners. The organisation said it received a complaint about the two dogs abandoned on a property in Bernadino Heights on January 25. The occupants allegedly had an argument, left the property and did not return. On the first inspection, SPCA Inspector Mark Syce said the dogs appeared to be free roaming, however the area was dirty with faeces scattered around. “I observed a broken kennel which does not provided adequate shelter against the weather elements. I did not observe any food nor potable water,” Syce said. He left a first notice on the gate, proceeded to feed the dogs and gave them water. Three more consecutive warnings were issued and ignored thereafter. “On the third day, I issued the third warning and just as I was about to leave, a bakkie pulled up behind me. Two gentlemen had brought dog food and claimed they worked for the owner of the house and had been feeding the dogs every day and making sure there was water.  I asked them to clean the living area of the dogs and fix the broken kennel. I also spoke to the owner on one of their phones and he agreed to do it. “I came back for the recheck the following day and the yard was still a mess with lots of faeces laying around. I issued a Final Warning to clean the yard and fix the broken kennel. This too was ignored,” Syce said. Syce approached the Kuilsriver Magistrates’ court for recourse and in his court application stated that the dogs did not have access to adequate protection or shelter to provide protection against the elements. “The dogs are deprived from the freedom of discomfort. It is cruel and inhumane to confine any animal in an area without adequate protection or shelter against the weather elements. I am of the reasonable view that this is an offence in terms of Section 2(1)(b) of the Animals Protection Act No 71 of 1962 and that the dogs are suffering unnecessarily,” Syce stated. The court order was granted and the dogs were removed on Wednesday and taken to the Cape of Good Hope SPCA for safekeeping. “Our first mission is to educate, but we will not tolerate non-compliance. These dogs were so happy to leave with us. These furry friends need love, care and attention. They need more than just food and water,” Syce said Cape Times