CAPE TOWN - The Department of International Relations and Co-operation (Dirco) says it is in touch with and assisting about 200 South African citizens in the Ukraine. This is as Ukrainian and Russian officials will meet for talks at a venue on the Belarusian border, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy’s office said on Sunday. The talks, the first since Russia unleashed a full-scale invasion of Ukraine last week, would be held “without preconditions” and were the result of a phone call between Zelenskiy and the Belarusian president, Zelenskiy said, according to a Reuters report. “We agreed that the Ukrainian delegation would meet with the Russian delegation without preconditions on the Ukrainian-Belarusian border, near the Pripyat River,” he said in a statement. Dirco spokesperson Clayson Monyela said according to their database there were about 200 South African citizens who they were in touch with. “South African citizens were advised to leave Ukraine before the first attack took place and those who are there are the ones who decided not to leave. “Other countries had also sent the early advice to their citizens. “It is important to remember that Ukraine is a conflict zone, it’s not easy to move around and that includes the ambassador (Andre Groenewald). He cannot just be out and about. “China had advised it’s people to stay indoors and they have not been able to evacuate people because the airspace has been closed for airlines. Trains are the only operational avenue in Ukraine,” said Monyela. He added that they were concerned about reports and videos showing many South Africans and Africans being mistreated and some not allowed to get into trains because other nationalities were being prioritised. “We are worried about the plight of South Africans because some have had to walk long distances and they are hungry. “We have spoken to neighbouring countries including Poland and Hungary where we have ambassadors. “The countries are receiving people who are fleeing away from the conflict and our ambassadors are facilitating to ensure our citizens are allowed to cross the borders. Also for them to be given food. “We are doing all we can and we also have a Whatsapp group where we are engaging and following up with the students and other citizens,” Monyela said. As the knock on effects of the Russian invasion are felt around the world, petrol prices in South Africa are set to increase significantly this week. Both grades of petrol will increase by R1.46/ per litre, diesel will increase between R1.44/l and R1.48/l and illuminating paraffin will increase by R1.21/l on Wednesday. Hugo Pienaar, Chief Economist at the University of Stellenbosch's(SU) Bureau for Economic Research, said while it was too early at this stage for the conflict to show an impact on economic activity of the county, the invasion of Ukraine impacted domestic financial markets last week. “The risk-off global sentiment pushed the rand exchange rate weaker against the dollar, while the share prices of South Africa listed companies with exposure to Russia were under pressure. “We have already also seen some big moves in commodity prices of importance to the country,” he said. According to Pienaar if the conflict is prolonged, a likely sustained higher oil price, as Russia is a leading oil producer, will have the most direct impact on South Africa, putting pressure on inflation and weighing on consumer disposable income. He said sanctions on Russian banks potentially also posed a risk for the country’s exporters to Russia of not being paid. “However, trade stats from the South African Revenue Service show that SA merchandise exports to Russia amounted to R6.07bn in 2021. “This is less than 0.4% of total SA merchandise exports. “Regarding imports, SA imported goods worth R9.2bn from Russia in 2021, less than 1% of total imports. “Particular sectors of the SA economy are more exposed to Russia: 8% of SA fresh fruit exports go to Russia, 20% of SA pears exported to Russia,” said Pienaar. Attempts to get comment from the Russian Embassy in SA were unsuccessful on Sunday. Russian President Vladimir Putin on Sunday defied mounting sanctions and recriminations from the West. “As you can see, not only do Western countries take unfriendly measures against our country in the economic dimension - I mean the illegal sanctions that everyone knows about very well - but also the top officials of leading Nato countries allow themselves to make aggressive statements with regards to our country,”  Putin said on state television. An explosion on a gas pipeline occurred in Ukraine’s eastern city of Kharkiv on Sunday, the government-run Ukrinform news agency reported. According to the report citing sources from the Kharkiv Regional Civil-Military Administration, the Russian forces blew up a gas pipeline in the city’s Danylivka district in the early morning. There is yet no second source confirming Russia’s role in the blast, reported Xinhua. The ANC meanwhile said it was consistent in pursuing its international relations objectives as directed by the Freedom Charter which states that “there shall be peace and friendship”, adding that the ruling party was committed to the values of the UN for pursuance of peaceful and diplomatic resolution of conflict. Cape Times