CAPE TOWN - Investigations are under way after the historic Chapel Street Primary School in Woodstock and St George’s Cathedral in the CBE both went up in flames at the weekend. At around 1:50am on Sunday a fire started in the basement of the church. Police spokesperson Wesley Twigg said an arson case was opened for investigation. “According to reports a member of the public saw a fire in the basement of the church and alerted the security. No one has been arrested,” said Twigg. Father Michael Weeder said it appeared that a lit piece of cotton/gauze was thrown through the small, barred window near the steps leading up to the cathedral's entrance. “Someone was spotted running away from the cathedral. “The burglar bars had to be broken so that the firefighters could gain access. “The Cloister area door also had to be broken open as at one stage the firefighters thought the fire was actually inside the cathedral,“ he said. Weeder called for prayers for protection over the cathedral. “There has been some unsung, quiet heroism at play. While the city slept. This is the seed of our belief that the wicked, machivelian machinations of the cabal of the greedy and corrupt will not prevail,” Weeder said. A former Chapel Street Primary pupil, Fairoez Adams from Grassy Park, said she found out about the fire at the school via Facebook. “I was shocked and very disappointed. The feeling I got when I saw the fire and the way the flames were going was the same feeling I got when they burned Parliament because that building is also old and Victorian. “It is a very good school, I have a lot of fond memories. If we still were to live there I would have sent all my children and grandchildren to attend that school.” The Western Cape Education Department said learning and teaching would resume as normal on Monday. “The fire was thankfully contained to a shed at the back of the school that is disused and did not spread any further. No one was injured. “Fire services were on the scene and the area has been cordoned off for safety reasons. The cause of the blaze is unknown at this stage,” they said. Adams recalled playing in the shed during rainy days and said the school was called East Park before it was changed to Chapel Street Primary. She added that East Park was part of the apartheid regime and was reserved for white learners. Anyone with any information about either of the incidents is urged to contact Crime Stop on 08600 10111. Information may be shared anonymously. Cape Times