CAPE TOWN - A history of violence was revealed during the bail application proceedings of accused murderer and suspended cop, Richard Smit, who is accused of the murder of his partner Natasha Booise. Smit, 36, appeared in the Piketberg Magistrates Court on Thursday where a list of his previous convictions was read to the court including an incident in which he had gun pointed his father during an altercation in 2013. However, the recently-suspended cop, who intends to plead not guilty, in his bail bid argued that he “poses no threat to witnesses and isn’t a threat to society” and his further detainment would infringe on his right to freedom, dignity and healthcare. The matter was postponed to March 15 for further investigation.  Ronald Davids for police watchdog Ipid who are investigating the matter, testified in opposition of bail. National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila said Davids was told that Smit called Booise three times enquiring where she was, as she was not at home. “Booise told him she was at the Piketberg City Centre taking pictures with her family members and she will contact him when he returns home later. The accused arrived at the city centre with two people in his vehicle. He then shot her. He threatened her aunt and chased her with his vehicle. He told (the aunt) ‘ek skiet jou vrek (I will shoot and kill you)’. The aunt grabbed Booise’s son and other children and brought them in front of her in order to deter Smit from shooting her. The witnesses in the accused’s vehicle also told him not to shoot as there were children,” said Ntabazalila. It also emerged in court that the two people who were in the car with Smit at the time of the murder are now state witnesses and feared for their lives in the event that Smit is granted bail. Smit’s previous convictions includes an assault incident in 2015 where he stabbed Hogan Henry with a knife under his left rib. He was sentenced to 36 months of correctional supervision with 24 hour house arrest and 16 hours of correctional services. He was also convicted for common assault after he beat up another man in 2017 and in another conviction, he was fined R3 000 for the contravention of the Road Traffic Act and resisting arrest. “His now-deceased father also applied for a protection order in 2013 after Smit swore, pointed his service pistol at him and threatened to shoot him. Although the protection order was later withdrawn, the SAPS took away his service for five years as he declared him unfit to possess a firearm. In 2020 he applied for the reinstatement of his firearm and it was given back to him. It was the same service pistol he used to kill his girlfriend of between nine and ten years,” said Ntabazalila.  Smit faces seven charges including the murder of Booise, two counts of attempted murder of Roslin Kaaiman and Erin Plaatjies, discharging a firearm in a built-up area, handling of a firearm while under the influence of a substance which has an intoxicating or narcotic effect and two counts of assault. Cape Times