Cape Town – To help alleviate the demand for potable water, the George Municipality has begun the installation of 2-litre plastic bottles in toilet flushing systems at its facilities and the replacement of traditional taps at beaches with push-down taps. The municipality said on Tuesday the water supply crisis became so serious they had to urgently implement water restrictions and water throttling in George. “The reservoirs are drying up due to high water demand versus water supply. The water treatment works cannot meet the current potable water demand and cannot ensure adequate reservoir storage volumes to meet the emergency storage volumes required,” it said. The municipality has collected more than 1 000 2-litre plastic bottles to install in its 54 facilities, including municipal buildings, offices, recreational facilities, community halls and libraries. “Thanks to a recycling company based in the George industrial area, Henque Waste, for sponsoring the municipality with more than 800 bottles. We would like to express our heartfelt gratitude to Henque Waste for its contribution to this campaign,” the municipality said. The installation of these bottles started at the beginning of February with two teams of workers from the municipal auxiliary services accompanied by plumbers. These teams are travelling all over George installing bottles at municipal facilities. Some of the toilet flush systems are built small and do not accommodate a 2-litre bottle. In such cases, they adjust the flush system itself to use less water. The municipality said push taps switch off automatically, which takes away the possibility that someone may leave the tap running. The taps replacement campaign started at the ablution facilities of beaches in the George municipal precinct. Areas covered so far are the Leentjiesklip, Gwaiing, Herolds Bay and Victoria Bay beaches. “The municipality challenges the community of George to explore more creative ways to save water to ensure that all of us get a fair share of this very scarce commodity. We also continue to encourage the consumers to follow the water restrictions.” Contraventions of the water restrictions can be reported on 0800 424 477. Report water leaks to the Civil Engineering Department at 044 801 9262/66 or after hours at 044 801 6300. Cape Times