CAPE TOWN - Already-stretched motorists and other South Africans are in for another tough year and will have to dig even deeper into their pockets following another petrol hike from midnight. Mineral Resources and Energy Gwede Mantashe on Monday announced that the petrol will rise by 53 cents a litre, diesel by 80 cents a litre and illuminating paraffin by R1.01 cents a litre. Going into February, 95 octane petrol inland will cost R20.14 per litre, with the same fuel costing R19.42/l at the coast; both fuels will cost just 15 cents less than they did in December. Automobile Association (AA) spokesperson Layton Beard said the large increase in illuminating paraffin in particular will hit poor people hard, as many rely on it for lighting, heating and cooking. He said the significant increases for February would push the country’s fuel prices near record territory again and would, undoubtedly, have a knock-on impact on other consumer products and services. “The major factor in the latest hike is the rapid strengthening of benchmark crude oil prices to nearly $90 a barrel. The last time Brent Crude touched current levels was in October 2014, more than seven years ago. A combination of factors is pushing oil higher, not least the imbalance between supply and demand as the lower-than-expected economic impact of the Omicron Covid-19 variant pushes economic activity higher, and crude production lags. “In addition, there are political jitters around Ukraine, which could see a switch to increased oil use throughout the EU if Russia restricts natural gas output in response to sanctions threatened by the USA and United Kingdom.” A review of the fuel price in South Africa was necessary, said the association. Assembly of the Unemployed (AoU) spokesperson Bridgette Nkomana  said many unemployed people were already relying on the R350 government grant and that If it was taken away, more people would be in deeper poverty. “The situation is getting worse and worse. We know the impact of petrol hikes translates to food prices also going up. The unemployed are at the mercy of the R350 relief fund, and we do not know this will be extended or not. It costs nothing less than R1 200 a month to look for employment. It is expensive to live here and it is going to get to a point like what we saw in (the) KZN (unrest). It was people’s desperation. The AOU have been rallying behind the introduction of a basic income grant of R1 500. At the end of the day that would alleviate things a little to put something in the stomach of the poor.” Yesterday’s fuel price hike came hours after Statistics South Africa (Stats SA) updated the Consumer Price Index (CPI) basket of goods and services, and the corresponding weights, for 2019. Representing the set of products purchased by South African households, Stats SA found that the number of products in the basket increased to 415 from 404 in the 2016 edition. Stats SA said while a survey of household expenditure usually formed the basis of the weights, or shares of expenditure on each of the products purchased in the CPI basket of goods and services, due to funding cuts they had not been able to conduct the survey over the past five years. Instead, the latest changes to the weights are derived from the growth rates of the final household consumption expenditure (HFCE) component of the national accounts between 2016/2017 (i.e. the average of 2016 and 2017) and 2019. The expenditure values have not been price updated. “The list of basket items was determined on the basis of detailed sales information provided to Stats SA by major retail chains. The number of products in the basket increased to 415 from 404 in the 2016 edition. A total of 14 products enter the basket and two fall out,” Stats SA said. Additions to the food basket include samp, dairy/fruit juice blends, jam, puréed baby food, and cappuccino sachets. Other new products include gin, soundbars and speakers, printer cartridges, printer paper, floor and wall tiles, fabric softener, wipes, make-up (foundation) and razors. DVD players and satellite dishes were removed from the basket. Bureau for Economic Research economist Hugo Pienaar said: “We are spending more on fuel which is also interesting as these weightings go back to 2019, (and) we are not even taking Covid related impacts into account yet.” Cape Times