CAPE TOWN - The century-old beach revetment built in Fish Hoek in 1930, at first thought to be a railway track, was exposed at the coast this week. The remnants, first thought to be a temporary spur line built in 1929, but now considered to be remains of the revetment – which has been buried in the sand for more than 90 years – was seen during low tide on Monday. The City said its Coastal Management Branch spent most of Monday morning trying to uncover the line and to ascertain what it was. It said there were no plans yet to have the line removed. Deputy Mayco member for Spatial Planning and Environment, Eddie Andrews, said they were still trying to establish the facts. “Early on we suspected that the exposed line formed part of a temporary spur line, built on the beach in 1929, when the government of the day decided to remove all the dunes from this section of Fish Hoek beach. However, since then, we have concluded that it is most likely a substantial remaining piece of the first beach revetment built in 1930 at Fish Hoek beach. This revetment was built with sleepers from the railway line and joined by rail components, thus the confusion with the spur line. Lying on its side it looked like a railway line “We believe that this will be temporary only, until the coastal processes cover it again, over time. Our coastline is very dynamic and winds and cycles and storms have an ongoing impact – this was evident during the recent surge, coupled with the full moon spring tide last month. Thus, there is no need for us to take action; we will let the natural process unfold,” said Andrews. If the revetment remains exposed, authorities would consider removal. “But we anticipate the sand levels will recover and that the old revetment will be buried once again.  The initial confusion with the rail line stemmed from a reading of A History of Fish Hoek, 1818 to 1968, written by Eric Rosenthal and published by the Fish Hoek Chamber of Commerce in 1968, Andrews added. Rosenthal mentions efforts by the then Railway Department in 1929 to remove the dunes at Fish Hoek beach and dump the sand at the Cape Town Harbour.  “It was, therefore, initially thought that the exposed line was linked to a government decision in 1929 to control the sand hills at Fish Hoek beach. Rosenthal describes in detail how the decision led to a dispute among residents and even a local referendum about the sand dunes – some claiming they were an eyesore and obscuring the sea view, while others were concerned about the impact the removal of the dunes would have on the coastal town. “I suppose what we also learn from the brief sighting of this piece of history is that the more things change, the more they stay the same. Nearly a 100 years later and the problem of windblown sand on railway lines and roads remains, as do conflicting opinions on how to live in harmony with nature,” said Andrews. Attempts to get comment from the Fish Hoek Historical Association were unsuccessful by the time of publication. Cape Times