CAPE TOWN - After nearly three months, the Western Cape Education Department (WCED) is yet to compensate more than 40 people who marked 2021 National Senior Certificate (NSC) exam scripts. About 3 532 markers were appointed at centres across the provinces during the December 2021 marking period. Some markers, such as Louise Grundlingh from Table View, said it was now almost the end of February and they had no clue when they will be paid for their work. “I’m currently an unemployed mother and while things have not reached desperation, they will head that way. I have been marking for about eight years and I have never experienced this long delay. Other people who also marked with me at the Western Cape Sport School and other centres have been complaining about the same thing.” Grundlingh said they have been sending emails and calling the department’s human resource call centre but they get the same reply each time. “When the phone calls are answered it’s the same story of ‘we can see you are on the system but no payment has been allocated to your profile yet’. There is no time frame of when we can expect the payment. When you ask, the operator says they cannot tell us but we must phone again next Monday. I really don’t know what to do anymore. “At least show us dignity and respect by communicating what is happening. We worked diligently 7am to 7pm for about 15 days or more without excuses, we honoured the contract. Now the same respect would be appreciated,” she said. WCED spokesperson Bronagh Hammond said majority of the exam markers were paid last month with a total of 3 487 people compensated last Thursday. To date, payments for 45 markers have been delayed, Hammond said, adding that some of the cases involved foreigners with work permits that have expired or need to be vetted by the Department of Home Affairs. In other cases there was outstanding information that needed to be submitted in order for the department to confirm the appointment and pay. “In a small number of cases, markers have been blocked or restricted on PERSAL, or have since resigned or retired from the service. All email enquiries have been responded to. These challenges are similar to 2021, similarly there are markers leaving the WCED’s employ on an ongoing basis,” said Hammond. ANC education spokesperson Khalid Sayed said the non-payments should not be tolerated. “We are dismayed by the failure to pay salaries of exam markers by the WCED for the work concluded in December 2021. This is unacceptable and this behaviour and incompetency by the officials must be condemned. “It is also highly disappointing that the WCED continues to prioritise appointment of foreign nationals for marking, when we have such high unemployment in the country, especially for youth. We will be taking this up in the legislature,” he said. Cape Times