CAPE TOWN - Animal welfare organisation Cape of Good Hope SPCA (CoGH SPCA) has celebrated a victory after a Manenberg dog owner was convicted and fined for animal cruelty. Dog owner, Zoffery Cupido, was charged with animal cruelty after the COGH SPCA became alerted that the dog, Mayana, was “horribly abused” by the owner, who was seen to be kicking and choking the dog. In a statement, CoGH SPCA said Mayana, a crossbreed, had been found with lots of materials and strings fastened tightly around her neck and rubber bands around her legs and head. Her legs had appeared swollen, and despite witnesses pleading with Cupido to stop the abuse, he continued the acts. In a sworn statement and application to the court, inspector Siviwe Noko stated: “I met with the owner of the dog, Mr Zoffery Cupido and asked him about the allegations. He became aggressive, and he told me I should mind my own business as well as the person who reported him to the SPCA. I noticed the tan and white cross breed dog with lots of materials and strings fastened tightly around the neck and rubber bands around the legs and the head. “I asked Cupido about the materials, strings and rubber bands that were around the dog’s neck and legs, and he told me that it has nothing to do with me. It is his dog. I shouldn’t come there and tell him what to do or what not to do with his dog.  “I then asked him to please remove all the materials, strings and rubber bands tied around the dog’s neck and legs because the head and legs appear swollen. Cupido then reluctantly removed them. He appeared to be angry. “I could see that the dog felt relieved after the bands and strings were removed. She was immediately mobile, shaking her body and rubbing against the wall. I thought to myself, what could’ve happened to the dog if this was not reported to the SPCA?” CoGH SPCA statement read. The owner was arrested on 10 September 2018 and first appeared in court on 12 September 2018. He was detained for more than three months for failure to pay bail. The case did not come without hiccups, as the state initially withdrew the case due to the lack of cooperation from the eyewitness. However, the SPCA opposed the withdrawal and approached the Department of Public Prosecutions to reopen the case and place it back on the court roll. “Animal cruelty cases are notoriously difficult to prosecute. Last year, a total of 105 court cases were pending. Sixty-three of the 105 cases were brought forward from the previous year, waiting on the judicial system to process. Forty-two new court cases of animal cruelty were initiated in the 2020/2021 period, of which five were successfully concluded in conviction. This year, the Cape of Good Hope SPCA initiated 53 new cruelty cases, of which, 11 were closed by the state, and four cases have thus far concluded in a successful conviction. “In January 2022, Cupido was found guilty of a criminal offence and sentenced with a R4 000 fine or four months imprisonment, suspended for a period of three years on the condition he is not convicted of an offence in terms of the Animal Protection Act during the period of suspension. He now has a criminal record,” CoGH SPCA said. Inspector Noko said he was relieved that the matter had reached a guilty verdict and thanked the public for their ongoing support. “It is your support that keeps our Inspectors in the courtrooms and allows them the privilege of speaking on behalf of those who cannot speak for themselves,” said Noko. Cape Times