CAPE TOWN - Kung Fu champion Muhammad Junaid “MJ Li” Chafeker has officially opened entries for the continent’s first Africa Youth Kung Fu And Open Martial Arts Tournament and Open Martial Arts Tournament, to be held in the city in November. The five-time gold medallist said he envisioned a huge festival representing a melting pot of Chinese and African culture with a grand opening ceremony, special guests, dragon dance, lion dance, Chinese folk dance, as well as Chinese and African foods. “This is an idea I had in mind for a long time then lockdown happened and last  November I thought long and hard about it and felt like this year would be the right time. Over the years I’ve worked with disadvantaged youth empowering them through martial arts, something I would now love to extend to our youth across Africa,” he said. The tournament will see young people between the ages of 10 and 18 compete in group divisions, forms, full contact and Chinese kickboxing. In addition, other martial arts disciplines like karate, Tae kwon do, Aikido will also get to showcase their talent. “I have reached out to many African countries including Egypt, Morocco, Algeria, Zimbabwe, Namibia, to name a few and told them about this idea asking to send their youth teams and many have expressed interest. There are also youth athletes in Joburg and Pretoria who are also going to participate. “We still have a lot of hard work ahead, but we will be meeting the mayor next week, after which we will be announcing the venue.” MJ LI added that one of the special guests would include his grandmaster Wong coming from the US. The importance of the special guests he added were also for the value they would add to the youth empowerment workshops planned for after the tournament. The Africa Youth Kung Fu and Open Martial Arts Tournament and Open Martial Arts Tournament is set to take place from November 4-6. Application forms and invitation letters can be accessed by contacting MJ LI on mjlikungfu@gmail.com, via his Facebook page, M.J.Li Kungfu Champion or WhatsApp on 081 711 1211. Cape Times