CAPE TOWN - The COEGA Development Corporation has been appointed to perform detailed assessments of the fire-damaged buildings at Parliament In a statement on Sunday, Public Works and Infrastructure Minister Patricia de Lille on Friday said the company had been appointed and would work in close consultation with the National Treasury. On January 7, De Lille had said a team of professionals would be deployed to conduct an assessment of the damage. “The professional team comprising of structural, civil, electrical, and mechanical engineers conducted and concluded a high-level preliminary visual assessment of the damage, including the safety aspect of the site. The professional team’s visual assessment started with the Old National Assembly, and they then proceeded to assess the structural damage to the New National Assembly. “There was evidence of severe structural damage to the slabs. The slabs affected by the damage are the second, third and fourth floors. In addition, there were major cracks in the walls on the second and third floors,” De Lille said. The professional team advised that the New Assembly Building was unsafe and should be cordoned off and closed in order to restrict access.” The Department of Public Works and Infrastructure (DPWI) then began the procurement of an independent specialist-engineering team to conduct further detailed assessments and testing of material strength. “The DPWI’s bid evaluation committee recommended that Coega be appointed for the independent assessment. “In close consultation with National Treasury on Friday, February 11, the DPWI appointed the Coega Development Corporation to perform assessments of the fire-damaged buildings in Parliament,” De Lille said. Following the DPWI engineering services’ recommendation that specialised structural engineering assessment work be undertaken, a scope of work was generated from the DPWI’s engineering services team which includes an assessment of the damaged buildings to pronounce on the extent of the damage. “Upon completion of the assessment, the service provider is to submit a report within one week of appointment that must cover: a damage report indicating the extent of the structural damage and any other structural issues; pronouncement on the safety aspects of the structure; advise on short-term measures to address any safety concerns; and provide a proposed programme for completing a detailed assessment report,” the minister said. “I am pleased that the appointment is now finalised, as I am eager to see the teams get to work and provide detailed assessments of the damage, rehabilitation and restorative measures and restoration costs,” De Lille said. Cape Times