CAPE TOWN - The Western Cape High Court has turned down an application by a husband accused of foul play in the death of his wife who fell from a cliff in the Cederberg mountains. Sean Todd turned to the court to have the findings relating to the inquest of his wife Terry Wampach-Todd reviewed. Wampach-Todd fell from a cliff in the Cederberg Mountains while Todd, who became the only witness of the devastating incident on January 14, 2016. She later died due to the injuries sustained from the fall. Pursuant to the incident, a magistrate in the district of Clanwilliam held an inquest and made findings in terms of section 16(2)(d) of the Inquests Act 58 of 1959 (“the Act”). The magistrate found that although there were no witnesses to give direct evidence as to how the incident occurred, the available circumstantial evidence strongly indicated foul play and the only person this foul play pointed to was Todd. But Todd then approached the high court to set aside and substitute these findings with an order that “it has not been established that the death of the deceased was brought about by any act or omission prima facie involving or amounting to an offence on his part or on the part of any person”. Before the incident, the couple had been married for six years. Wampach-Todd was an accomplished athlete with numerous achievements including international in various fields of cycling. The couple had been visiting the Sanddrift Holiday Resort in Cederberg, something they did often. On January 14, 2016, early in the morning they set off with their mountain bikes from their cottage and cycled on the mountain bike trail. According to Todd,  it was about 40 minutes later they reached a cliff face where they stopped to take photos. He took a photo of Wampach-Todd sitting on the edge of the cliff. After the photo he  then walked away from her on a sandy path which led to an outcrop of rock. While standing there, he suddenly heard his wife screaming. When he had turned around, he saw her body falling over the edge of the cliff. But when the investigating officer investigated the sandy path,  she observed that there were no footprints at all. She fell 80 to 100 metres from the top of the cliff to the ground. He then found a way to go down to her and he found her lying in the ravine. Judge James Lekhuleni ruled: “The standard of proof applicable in inquest proceedings is poles apart from the standard of proof applicable in criminal matters. In inquest proceedings the question is whether a judicial officer holding the inquest is of the opinion that there is evidence available which could at a subsequent criminal trial be held to be credible and acceptable and which, if accepted, could prove that the death was brought about by an act or omission which involved or amounted to the commission of a criminal offence. “In my view, having considered all the affidavits filed by the witnesses, the findings of the (magistrate) cannot be faulted. I must stress the fact that the applicant gave conflicting versions of what transpired at the ravine. He made his first report to a receptionist at the Sanddrif Holiday Resort. He told her that his wife fell off her bicycle and he thinks that she may be dead because he felt her pulse and there was nothing and her limbs were also broken. “On the same morning he told other witnesses including the police, (she) fell into the cliff after he took her photo. The applicant has not given a plausible explanation on what really caused the deceased, an accomplished sportswoman, to fall into the cliff. The deceased was a cyclist of note who won numerous competitions in the world including America. She was medically sound and physically fit. Her fall into the cliff was mysterious and demands an answer. The applicant could not give a credible explanation of the two deep scratches under his eye which were observed by the investigating officer who arrived at the scene whilst the deceased was still lying in the cliff. Taking into account the facts of this case, I am of the view that there is no basis whatsoever warranting the setting aside of the decision of the first respondent (magistrate).” Cape Times