CAPE TOWN - After 24 years, the family of Adriaan Jeffrey Mathysen are yet to find closure, following his disappearance in Upington when he was just 8-years old. He had just moved from his aunt’s house in Kuilsriver to live with his mother in Leseding, 6km outside Upington, when he disappeared. “That day I had sent him and my older son to collect firewood because I planned to make ‘roosterkoek’, it was his favourite,” Adriaan’s mother Magdalene Marx said. “Where we lived was a lot of bushes and trees, and they would regularly collect twigs.  “My older son said Adriaan went to drink some water at the canal mouth. He last saw him on his way returning to where they were collecting wood. “A few minutes later I called them, and he assumed that Adriaan had continued collecting wood after he drank water.  “He went back to look for Adi but said Adi was not there.  “My brother jumped in the canal and looked for him but we never found him.” The mom of four continued: “Many people drowned there after Adriaan‘s disappearance and their remains were found. But to this day, Adriaan’s remains or clothes have still not been found, that’s why I believe he was taken.” The distraught mother said her instincts told her he was still alive. “I believe he is still alive… I just feel like that and every time I pray, God shows him to me clearly coming home. His youngest brother, who was two-months old when Adriaan disappeared, had the same dream a few weeks ago… He saw Adriaan come to the door looking for his mother,” Marx said. The family moved from the house about three years after the boy disappeared because there were too many memories and they did not feel safe there, Marx said. She said she never found closure because “nobody knows anything”. “It’s terrible, still every day that emptiness is there. Everyday I wonder, does he have something to eat? Is he still alive?” all those things. Some nights I can’t sleep because I think about him the whole night.” Adriaan’s aunt, Elizabeth Mathysen said he was a lovely child. “He lived with me and attended Sarepta Primary School. He was very active, and loved to play, he would sit outside in the tree. We have never found closure, he is the same age as my second eldest son, I still have a picture of them together.” She has since searched Facebook for people with the same name. “His surname could have been changed. I found a few profiles, one that stands out is of someone in Tulbagh.  “Unfortunately I am not able to go there, but I am asking anyone with information or who knows this person to please get in touch with us.”  Upington police said they were not able to access information relating to the case on Sunday. To assist the family, Marx can be contacted on 078 384 4636. Cape Times