CAPE TOWN - Traders who had to sacrifice two or more days of usual business because of the State of the Nation Address (Sona) are expecting to resume operations at the Grand Parade on Friday. The event, being held at the historic Cape Town City Hall, has not only inconvenienced motorists who had to take longer routes around the CBD owing to road closures, but also business for some informal traders with stalls near the hall. According to the South African Informal Traders Alliance (Saita), there was an initial proposal that trading operations return fully without disruptions after February 16. “We had extensive consultations with the national Parliament officials and the City ahead of time.  “A proposal was made by Parliament that informal traders don’t operate for about eight days but an exception would be made for this Saturday and Sunday.  “This sector is still recovering from Covid-19, it was one of the most affected, so we rejected this and only agreed not to trade on Wednesday and yesterday. “More days would have created a great impact. In the past years we had to sacrifice one day but we understand that due to circumstances there had to be a change this year.  “Only the food kiosks in the Grand Parade are operating,” Saita president Rosheda Muller said. Muller said alternative trading venues including Harrington Square, the Company’s Garden and Heritage Square were not viable because there weren’t enough passing people. Trader Tenda Chipamba said they weren’t happy about the loss of trading on Wednesday because usually that day and Saturdays was when they made the most profit. Mayco member for economic growth, James Vos said the City hoped for minimal disruption to informal traders in the CBD. “Our view is that traders need every possible opportunity to continue with their business operators as they depend on it for their livelihoods.” Just hours before President Cyril Ramaphosa was set to deliver the 2022 Sona address yesterday, Muller said they would like to see strong presidential support for the important role that informal traders played in the economy. “Our government needs to remember that informal traders are the backbone to our economy, employing and sustaining the lives of millions of people.  Last year, Saita launched its 1 million jobs campaign, a programme to create 1 million jobs by the end of 2023.” Cape Times