CAPE TOWN - The select committee on petitions and executive undertakings will on Thursday consider a petition calling for the removal of the use of the word “Coloured” from all official government forms, private institutions and the Employment Equity Act. Oudtshoorn-based teacher Glen Snyman brought the petition on behalf of community-based non-profit organisation People Against Racial Classification (Parc).  According to the petition, the word “Coloured” is confusing, derogatory, racist and conceals the true historical identity of the Khoi and San people.  Further, Snyman argues that it is racist to think that adding two different races together creates a third race, namely that of Coloured, or to believe that black or white are pure races. The petition calls on Parliament to review the race definitions of African and black as defined by the Employment Equity Act. The Act defines Black people to include Africans, Coloureds and Indians, a definition that creates confusion, according to Snyman. He also argues that it is also commonly known among South African citizens that every South African citizen is an “African”, including white and Chinese South Africans. “African” is a collective name. Only in the act does “black people” become a collective name. The race classification law, the Population Registration Act of 1950, was repealed on June 27, 1991. In his petition, Snyman said he had exhausted all avenues before approaching Parliament, and had written to the SA Human Rights Commission in 2011 already. “I approached my district curriculum head to explain to her that the filling out of the race classification blocks on the WCED’s attendance register form’s every time you attend a workshop, as well as when you apply for a promotion post, is becoming overdue now.  “I wrote several letters to the top people in the Western Cape Education Department. The matter later ended up in the Labour Court. The Education Labour Relations Council (ELRC) wrote a report that they lack the jurisdiction to arbitrate race-related matters. The matter was referred to the CCMA, which also told us that they lack jurisdiction to arbitrate race-related matters. “The word ’Coloured’ is a very derogatory term to call someone by. Coloured is not a culture, nor is it a skin colour. The South African Government has not made the time and effort to ask us how we feel about being referred to as such. In Europe and the US it is against the law to refer to people as ’Coloured’. “The government and the media choose to classify and refer to the ’Coloureds’ as black when they have achieved huge successes in life and when it comes to voting times for political gains.” Cape Times