CAPE TOWN - Mere hours after police statistics painted a grim picture regarding crimes against women and children, the lifeless body of a homeless woman was allegedly left for hours before emergency services responded to the scene. This as police have asked anyone with information on the identity of the woman, alleged to have been raped and murdered, to come forward. Police spokesperson, Wesley Twigg, said an inquest docket has been opened. “Cape Town Central police are investigating an inquest case following the death of a unknown female yesterday in Old Marine Drive, Foreshore, Cape Town. A post-mortem will be conducted to determine the cause of death,” said Twigg. According to Carlos Mesquita from re-home NPO, Rehoming Collective, the body of the unidentified woman was found in the vicinity of Safe Spaces at Culemborg in the CBD after she had allegedly been murdered and raped on Saturday night. “This incident has been really traumatising to clients also at the Safe Spaces who were witness to a suicide just a few weeks ago as well. The body of the woman was just left there to die. “Her body was covered with a blanket after residents nearby came across it, but the wait for forensic services was very long. She laid there for an unacceptable amount of time from the night before. Forensics had only arrived and removed her body around 4pm,” said Mesquita who had alerted a number of authorities to the incident. Anti-GBV activist Zona Morton said the incident was “traumatising” and highlighted the urgency for emergency units to be deployed immediately. “We understand that there have been attacks on ambulances and emergency staff. However, with regard to this incident, there is no reason why vulnerable people should be subjected to further trauma as the body lay and wait in public, like a piece of dirt. She was (allegedly) raped but also metaphorically raped and stripped of her dignity, even in death. “If one has regard for the police statistics announced on Friday, such crimes are the definition of insanity. Police Minister Bheki Cele wanted to somewhat water down the reality when he said the numbers decreased to 902 murders of women. The fact is, that is 902 women too many and this is disturbing. There must be more of an urgency to respond to such incidents and authorities need to be more proactive than reactive,” said Morton. Enquiries to the provincial health and forensics department were unanswered by deadline. Anyone with any information about this incident, or who can shed light on the identity of the person is urged to contact the investigating Sergeant Isaacs on 021 467 8000 or Crime Stop on 08600 10111. Cape Times