CAPE TOWN - Renowned Anglican priest and anti-apartheid activist, Father Michael Lapsley says he is humbled and honoured to be awarded the Niwano Peace Prize. The Niwano Peace Prize Committee, which consists of nine religious leaders from various parts of the world, selected Lapsley for the award in recognition of his “relentless struggle against apartheid and other forms of social discrimination as well as various peace-building activities in other parts of the world”.  Lapsley was born in New Zealand in 1949 was ordained to priesthood in 1973. He embarked to South Africa at the height of apartheid and began his work as Chaplain in black and white campuses, which exposed him to student activism and the injustices experience by black students under apartheid. In 1990, he had sustained severe injuries, including losing both hands, the sight in his right eye, and extensive burns from a letter bomb explosion.  Associate Professor of Japanese Studies in the Department of East Asian Studies, University of Delhi, Dr Ranjana Mukhopadhyaya said rather than this incident leaving him bitter, angry or dejected, it rather reshaped Lapsley’s life’s work and led to his transition from being a freedom fighter and social activist to a healer. Lapsley said the award has a special significance for him.  “My father and his generation were at war with Japan. For his son to receive this peace prize, has a special significance for me,” he said.  “All of us are companions on the way so when I am acknowledged in this way, the honour belongs to many who have inspired me and are equally deserving.  The nature of the prize emphasizes the relationship between interfaith work and peace-building.  “It is very significant that it comes out of the only country in the world to be attacked by nuclear weapons.  “The prize is also a recognition of the work of the Institute for Healing of Memories as we seek to help heal the wounds of history. I am humbled  and honoured to receive this prize. I feel new strength and a commitment to keep doing this work with old and new companions.“ Mukhopadhyaya said Lapsley draws his spirituality from his reflections on injustices, pain and sufferings caused by social inequalities that he witnessed around him and this led him to seek justice for all based on his understanding of the Bible. “While being rooted in Christianity, his appeal has been universal and interfaith.  “Father Lapsley’s non-violent, multi-faith peacebuilding efforts and activities of healing based on restorative justice approach, dialogue, and reconciliation are continuing to contribute to the healing of South Africans as well as many others all over the world,” Mukhopadhyaya said. Cape Times