CAPE TOWN - A senior manager at the Bitou (Plettenberg Bay) Municipality is under fire for allegedly submitting fraudulent qualifications to secure employment. Ntho Maredi, who is employed as the municipality’s manager of Expenditure Management, was appointed to act in the position of municipal manager when the former acting municipal manager, Richard Bosman, recently resigned unexpectedly. Questions have also been raised about the appointment of Bosman, allegedly without council approval. The municipality’s Human Resources Division could not find a copy of a National Diploma in Cost and Management Accounting mentioned in Maredi’s CV in his employee file, said the Ikhwezi Political Movement (IPM). In a letter dated September 13, 2019, Maredi was requested to provide proof of the qualification. Maredi did not respond to enquiries on Thursday. The IPM called for Maredi to be dismissed, both as acting municipal manager and senior manager. “Furthermore, it has come to our attention that the current DA mayor, Dave Swart, was well informed about these allegations of fraudulent qualifications. However, instead of investigating, he decided to promote Mr Maredi to acting municipal manager,” IPM spokesperson Sivuyile Nkomo said. The DA referred questions to Swart, who had not responded to questions by deadline on Thursday. Local Government MEC Anton Bredell spokesperson Wouter Kriel said the department was writing to the mayor to check whether “the incumbent's qualification is in line with the prescribed requirements in law”. On the Bosman saga,  ANC Head of Communications Sifiso Mtsweni said due council processes had not been followed to appoint Bosman in the position in the first place. Bosman had resigned unexpectedly last Tuesday and the municipality said they had not been able to reach him since. He could not be reached when the Cape Times called him on Thursday. Mtsweni said: “He was appointed by the new administration of the DA. Due council processes were not followed to appoint the acting MM. Subsequently, within two months on the job, he suddenly disappeared without any explanation.” Swart in a statement this week said Bosman was appointed by the municipality following a recommendation from the head of the Western Cape Department of Local Government after the municipality’s former municipal manager had been embroiled in allegations of financial misconduct and resigned in December. “The reasons he cites for his immediate resignation are, as far as we are concerned, baseless as his resignation letter refers to interference in staff appointments by the two minority party councillors of the ruling coalition. In reality, this matter was fully dealt with among the coalition partners themselves to the satisfaction of all partners and Bosman was informed accordingly before his sudden and immediately effective resignation. “All round and based particularly on Bosman’s track record, his resignation and the dubiousness of his motivation seem completely out of character,“ he said. Swart said Bosman’s CV spoke of a strong, principled man of character that maintained a deep sense of responsibility. “However, leaving Bitou in the lurch without even a handover report as well as leaving various critical compliance issues that he started still pending contradict this estimation. “The further upshot of Bosman’s mysterious disappearance is that hugely important disciplinary matters may now have to be restarted at huge cost and embarrassment.“ MEC for Local Government Anton Bredell said the provincial department’s involvement with Bosman's appointment was simply a case of “exchanging contact details between the parties”. Bredell said they were yet to receive Bosman’s reasons for his resignation. “In the meantime, the Department of Local Government is liaising with Bitou Municipality to put alternative arrangements in place,” he said. Cape Times