CAPE TOWN - “You will forgive us for the tears. This is still hard for us.”  These were the words of a Nyanga father whose 13-year-old son Azola Quweni was among four boys who died when the embankment they were playing on along the N2 Borchards Quarry turn-off collapsed. Nearly one year after the incident, which shone a spotlight on the safety of children in black townships, the grieving families say the area is still unsafe but children continue to play there. This week, the Cape Times visited some of the families before Tuesday, February 8, the anniversary of the day Azola and his friends, Ivakele Kalikopu, 13, Nqabayethu Mlaza, 12, and Axolile Mabangula, 11, fell into a hole when the embankment collapsed. Speaking from his shack in Vukuzenzele informal settlement, Azola’s father, Mphumzi Qakalana, said: “I still can’t look at that place. It hurts so much. I look away everytime I’m passing by on public transport in order not to break down in front of people. “I was very close to Azola. We spoke about everything. I walk my children to school and sometimes Indiphile (his sister) will imitate funny things her brother used to do while we walked together.  She really misses him and always talks about him,” he said. February 28 last year was the last time Qakalana returned to the scene when he commemorated his son’s birthday with balloons. The tragedy was highly publicised, and a number of top officials visited the families, including Social Development Minister Lindiwe Zulu, former Human Settlements Minister Lindiwe Sisulu, former Mayor Dan Plato, former Human Settlement and Public Works MEC Bonginkosi Madikizela, and Deputy Minister of State Security Zizi Kodwa. A number of commitments were made to the families, however most of them have not materialised. None of the visitors have returned to the families. A plaque was to be erected for the children but that has not happened either. “There are no safe places here where children can play; they are either playing on the pavement, or where the incident happened. I also grew up playing soccer there, and children still go play there despite what happened. I’m afraid another incident might happen,” Qakalana said. “We were assisted to get a lawyer since the incident was said to be an accident, so that we can make some claims. We also don’t know how far that process is now,” he said. Axolile’s mother, Thuliswa Mabangula, said the families felt forgotten. She said only social workers kept to  their word by not only providing counselling, but food throughout the year. “We were called to a meeting and told that we will be moved after two months latest to Eerste River. Our hopes were up because it was even said the houses were already available but there were certain things that needed to be fixed first. We have been waiting ever since. In fact, when Sisulu was here she said the entire informal settlement should have been relocated years back and she did not know it was still here.” Mabangula said moving away from the area might help with the healing process. Passing the area reminds them of the day of the incident. “Social workers are the people who have been consistent in checking up on us and even delivered food. Axolile was the youngest of my two children. He wanted to be a police officer. It  still feels unreal sometimes that he is no longer here. My daughter was supposed to further her studies at Stellenbosch University last year but had to halt that because the incident had affected her. “ For me, seeing other children in December dressing for Christmas and seeing them going to school hit me hard,” she said. A provincial Department of Transport and Public Works report on an investigation into the incident found that illegal sand mining, or the theft of sand might have led to the deaths. “The report also made several recommendations, including that surveillance be increased by introducing additional fixed cameras at key hot spots. Provincial Human Settlement Department spokesperson Nathan Adriaanse said the department verified on the Housing Subsidy System whether the affected families were registered on the housing demand database. “Our search only revealed the approval for Fundiswa Kalikopu in Delft. The other families are advised to apply for a housing opportunity on the Housing Demand Database with the (City) to be eligible for an opportunity. “It’s important to highlight the allocation process, including the importance of potential beneficiaries registering on the housing demand database to express their housing need as it is ultimately their responsibility,” Adriaanse said. He said Vukuzenzele and Borcherds Quarry informal settlements formed part of the communities that would benefit from the Department’s Greater Airport Precinct Development, which is still under way. The national Human Settlements Department referred questions to the province. In a statement earlier this week, mayco member for transport Rob Quintas said the City’s Road Infrastructure Management Department had been battling with illegal sand mining for a few years. “Those doing illegal sand mining have destroyed numerous bridges, road shoulders and medians across Cape Town. “Of greater concern however is the danger this activity poses to residents and communities. Illegal mining undermines the integrity of our road infrastructure, meaning the infrastructure can collapse.” Some of the infrastructure that has been destroyed due to sand mining includes the Pama bridge in Khayelitsha, Lindela Road bridge, the bridge in Govan Mbeki across the railway line,  Footway bridge in Lower Crossroads and the footbridge across the railway line in Waterberg Road, Heideveld. “Illegal sand mining has already cost lives. We need our communities to work with us. “The City, on its own, cannot prevent this activity as we cannot monitor and safeguard all our infrastructure, all of the time.” Illegal sand mining can be reported to the Transport Information Centre on 080 065 6463. Cape Times