CAPE TOWN - Capetonians are returning to the office, according to traffic data. Data from i-TRAFFIC, a traveller information service provided by the South African National Roads Agency, showed traffic entering Cape Town’s central business district (CBD) on the N2 highway increased for four consecutive months towards the end of last year. Records of morning traffic from 6am – 9am show that volumes of traffic rose almost 13% between August and November, with 285 551 cars entering town during August and peaking at 434 573 in November, according to the I-Traffic Transport Management Centre. This corresponds with statistics from the MyCiTi bus service, which show the number of passenger trips recorded for the last quarter of 2021 increased more than 19% when compared with the same period in 2020. Thibault Investments chief operating officer Grant Elliot  said he was in support of the fact that 100% of the company’s staff were back in the office. “It is time for workers to get back to work,” said Michael Bauer, managing director of SAProperty.com. “All our staff are back full-time.” Redefine Properties staff is back in office, in line with their remote working policy. Investec Private Bank has a hybrid working policy of two days at home, three in the office. Rob Kane, chairperson of the Cape Town Central City Improvement District and chief executive officer of Boxwood Property Fund, which owns seven buildings in the CBD, said it was apparent office workers were returning to their desks. He attributed this to higher vaccination rates and staff wanting to feel like a valued part of an organisation. “Boxwood has been able to get 98% of our 100 staff and more than 400 contractors vaccinated, and this ‘Covid barrier’ is indeed a boon to people feeling safer in the office environment,” Kane said. Boxwood’s tenant office workers and contractors who are double vaccinated are entered into a monthly draw to stand a chance of winning R10 000. Several initiatives are under way to continue revitalising the CBD and bringing business back, such as the successful open street, open-air dining experiences in Long and Bree streets, held by the City of Cape Town in partnership with restaurants. “Not only are these outdoor, pavement dinners safer during the pandemic, but they are playing a role in encouraging economic recovery and greater footfall in the CBD,” Kane said. Cape Times