CAPE TOWN - Two-year-old Kayden Jeffereys from Bishop Lavis remained in a critical condition at Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital on Sunday night after being wounded in an alleged gang shooting. Kayden was shot after gunmen allegedly approached a group of people at a residence in Paulsberg Road at about 3.50pm on Saturday, said police spokesperson Joseph Swartbooi. Kayden’s father, Morgan Sarels, said he was at work when he got the call to inform him that his son had been shot. “Kayden currently has three bullets still lodged in his body. He was shot in the chest, collarbone and the cheek. Currently no operations have been done as doctors wait for the swelling to go down before they try to remove it. We are trying to stay strong but it hurts,” said Sarels. According to the father, the gunmen had allegedly come looking for his relative who is a gang member. “So the men just shot at family sitting outside the home. They fired five shots and all five hit my child - two bullets grazed his head,” said Sarels. Local NPO, Bishop Lavis Action Community (BLAC), has condemned the crime and urged the community to come together and build street committees in an attempt to curb crimes in the area. BLAC spokesperson, Amanda Davids, said: “It is only by working together as a community that we will be able to overcome the unnecessary violence in our beloved Bishop Lavis. Our prayers goes out to Kayden and his family. As a community, we are traumatised, not only Bishop Lavis but across the Cape Flats. We are living in war zones and accepting it as the norm. Build your street and block committees. It is up to us to teach our children that this is not the norm and that there is a better way.” CPF chairperson Graham Lindhorst said they condemned the shooting. “The incident happened in broad daylight when children are playing outside. Our children aren’t safe anymore and we need SAPS with their intelligence, to tell us what is brewing in the area that shootings have flared up again. After the shooting of the little boy, I received information that shooting again occurred in that same area later the evening,” he said. Swartbooi said according to reports three unknown armed men fired gunshots at the people sitting outside at the residence, injuring the boy. “The unknown suspects fled the scene and are yet to be arrested. Police are investigating a case of attempted murder,” said Swartbooi. Mayco member for Safety and Security JP Smith said Law Enforcement Advancement Plan (Leap) officers conducted hotspot patrols in Bishop Lavis following the shooting and two firearms were confiscated. Anyone with information on the incident can anonymously contact Crime Stop on 0860010111, or SMS Crime Line on 32211. Cape Times