CAPE TOWN - Fraud and money laundering accused and DA councillor, Nora Grose, has apparently asked to be removed as a member of the Municipal Public Accounts Committee (MPAC), a body tasked with investigating fraud, corruption, maladministration and irregular expenditure, due to  “scheduling clashes”. Her election as the member of the committee was met with outrage, with opposition parties accusing the DA of paying lip-service in the fight against malfeasance in government. Opposition parties also charged that while Grose was innocent until proven guilty, she did not meet the standard of integrity or independence required, as she is still being prosecuted for fraud and money laundering. But this did not move the governing party in the City council. Grose is out on bail after appearing in the Bellville Commercial Crimes Court alongside Reuben Swartz on charges of fraud and money laundering, relating to allegations of misappropriating City of Cape Town funds intended for food relief last year. Among her bail conditions is that she must not interfere with the investigation or not make contact with witnesses. Her case was postponed to March 11 for the State to provide further particulars to her lawyers. City Speaker, Felicity Purchase said Grose’s request to be removed from the committee had nothing to do with her critics. “In fact, in our game there are always critics… You have to just ignore them and continue to do your job, which is what the councillor is doing. She has not been found guilty of any offence and is the subject of political grandstanding. It is now nine months on and justice delayed is justice denied,” she said. Grose referred questions to the City and the DA when approached for comment on Tuesday. DA MP Emma Powell said Grose’s removal from MPAC was at her own request, and that she was not the only councillor who had asked to be removed from the committee due to “scheduling clashes”. “Nora was also not selected to serve as a ward councillor as indicated in the ANC’s latest fake news story. She is a proportional representative (PR) councillor, currently allocated to Ward 32. She remains ‘stepped aside’ from party political involvement again, at her request. This is because contrary to the vast misinformation in the media, councillor Grose is in fact a woman of principle and integrity,” she said. Powell said they were also looking forward to the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) to finally provide Grose’s defence team with their investigative docket, given that she has now appeared in court no fewer than six times. “All of these appearances have been postponed and her defence team have yet to be provided with the latest particulars on which the NPA claim to be basing their prosecution.” ANC senior councillor, Thandi Makasi, said they have been calling for the removal of Grose as a councillor from the outset. “She stepped aside from her political party duties, but still continued to be a ward councillor for the DA. The ANC was not surprised by this move, which was also endorsed by the DA.  “The DA is known for its political point-scoring and grandstanding with their useless and ineffective ‘step aside rule’. They have a lackadaisical approach when it comes to dealing with corrupt individuals in their party,” Makasi said. GOOD Party secretary-general Brett Herron said if the DA practised what it preached, Grose would never have been appointed in the first place. “What is astounding is that no-one in the DA’s leadership or in that caucus executive intervened. It took opposition parties to point out the conflict of interests, the breach of the terms of reference, and the hypocrisy of it,” Herron said. UWC political analyst Keith Gottschalk said the charges against Grose have been the “worst reverse” so far in Grose’s political career. “We do not yet know what the court findings will be. DA demands that the ANC suspend elected representatives immediately when charged and not wait for their conviction, are undermined by their inactions in cases concerning their own representatives, such as this one,” Gottschalk said. Cape Times