CAPE TOWN - Residents have been warned against fraudsters and scammers who are prying on unsuspecting and desperate people about fake opportunities within the City of Cape Town. The Cape Town Municipality’s corporate services directorate said there was a syndicate of fraudsters posing as City officials trying to scam people into paying them money in exchange for ‘jobs’. The alleged scammers send SMSes to the unsuspecting people telling them to meet them at the Civic Centre and bring money with them to secure the job. The victims are then redirected to an internet café to create Gmail accounts, to which they will be sent “medical certificates”. “This is a very sad and serious crime targeting the jobless at a time when unemployment is high and people are desperate to provide for their families,” the City said. “We understand that our residents are desperate for jobs. However, we appeal to them to be extra-vigilant. “Residents should please note that the City would never ask community members to pay for job opportunities or internships, or any other opportunity at the City.” Cape Town Mayco member for corporate services, Theresa Uys, encouraged those who had applied for jobs to keep the reference number safe. “Should someone phone or contact you, ask the caller for these specific details. If they cannot give you these details, then you should know that it is a bogus call,” Uys said. The City’s human resources department follows the recruitment process below: (blob)  The City of Cape Town places adverts internally and/or externally depending on the nature of the vacancy. For external applicants, adverts are placed in appropriate newspapers, on the City’s website in the careers section, and other career pages such as LinkedIn. (blob) Internal adverts are circulated electronically through the SAP portal and the careers page. The adverts are also placed on designated notice boards at City facilities. (blob) Depending on the level of the position, applicants will be requested to submit their job applications online via the City’s SAP portal, or forward it to a relevant vacancies’ email address. (blob) Training and Development programme opportunities such as Work Integrated Learning (WIL), skills development, the Infrastructure Skills Development Grant (ISDG), and the Graduate Internship Programmes (GIP), can be accessed by signing into https://jobjack.co.za. Interested individuals will be required to register on the site and will then have access to register for these programmes. Residents are urged to report fraudulent activities to the SAPS to help bring the perpetrators to book. Anyone with information can anonymously call Crime Stop on 08600 10111 or SMS Crime Line on 32211. Cape Times