Cape Town - The NS Qingdao bulk cargo ship is currently off-loading contaminated cargo at the Port of Saldanha on the West Coast. The NS Qingdao salvage operation is expected to continue for the rest of February into March, before the vessel is set to sail for its destination in Brazil. In a statement on Wednesday, local government MEC Anton Bredell said as of February 15, a total of 152 skips, each containing five tons of waste material, has been disposed of at the Vissershok High Hazardous Waste Management Site. A small amount of contaminated water was recovered from the affected cargo hold, and this has also been analysed and disposed of at Vissershok. “The salvage operation of the contaminated chemical cargo from the NS Qingdao at the Port of Saldanha Bay is progressing in a safe and well-coordinated manner,” Bredell said. Early in January the NS Quindao was authorised by the National Department of Forestry, Fisheries and Environment (DFFE) and the South African Maritime Safety Authorities (Samsa) to commence with a controlled dumping of unstable chemical cargo 250km off the West Coast of South Africa in 3 000m deep water. This was done to protect the integrity of the ship, and to prevent a full-scale disaster where the ship might have broken up due to an on board fire, potentially polluting our coastline with its cargo, as well as the fuel it carried. Approximately 1 450 tons of cargo was dumped during the offshore exercise, assisting in bringing the on board fire under control. The emergency has since been downscaled from a Severe Maritime Emergency to a salvage operation that can be safely managed in port. Bredell said the DFFE has initiated an Environmental Impact Study on the ocean dumping aspect of the operation, which includes the development of drift models and sample collection in the affected area. “Satellite monitoring of the ocean will continue to develop a clear understanding of the potential impact the dumping might have had on the environment. Toxicology testing will be conducted on endemic mussel species, and any suspect marine life that washes up on the beach will be send for autopsies with a state veterinarian. “The cause of the incident is still under investigation and a chemical analysis of the cargo is being conducted to determine the underlying factors for the fire and whether the vessel had any undeclared cargo in the hold,” Bredell said. He added that discussions were being held with the vessel’s owners and insurers to arrange a medium to long term environmental monitoring programme so that any potential future impacts can be managed.