CAPE TOWN - The interim interdict temporarily stopping geoscience data company Searcher from seismic blasting remains in place, the court ordered, as the company attempted to have the order reconsidered.  Judge Daniel Thulare on Monday said the company will have to wait until February 24 to hear the outcome of its bid to have an interim interdict set aside. This was as the court heard arguments by Searcher to reconsider an interim interdict which ordered it stop the seismic blasting until full arguments can be heard in an initial application by West Coast communities to block the seismic survey. The interim interdict was granted by Judge Thulare on Monday last week, after Searcher had failed to file its responding papers on time. However last Wednesday, Searcher filed an urgent application asking the court to reconsider the interim interdict, citing that “those costs of retaining the ship in South African waters without being able to conduct the survey will cost Searcher at least $2.8”. Judge Thulare on Monday said the interim order would remain in place until part A of the initial applications, which seeks to interdict Searcher from conducting the survey is finalised on February 24. Searcher argued: “The applicants have known about the permit since at least December 31, 2021. The application was brought in two parts, with Part A to operate as an interim interdict pending the finalisation of Part B (a combination of a review and interdict application). The founding papers in the application were approximately 700 pages and contained extensive expert evidence (eight substantive reports). The respondents were given six calendar days to file their answering affidavits. On the applicants' own admission they had taken two weeks to assemble their own papers. “Searcher could potentially seek to offset this loss by deploying the vessel in other territories until the interim interdict is discharged. But at present, there is no viable alternative work that has been identified for the vessel and so there is no reason to be optimistic that the loss arising from the order made on February 7 can be mitigated. If it cannot, Searcher will have to give consideration to cancelling the project because it will be rendered financially unviable.” Lawyer for the West Coast communities and environmental activists, from the Legal Resources Centre, Wilmien Wicomb argued that the application should be dismissed. “Searcher was plainly present at the hearing before (Judge) Thulare and this is fatal to its application. Further, the order granted by (Judge) Thulare is simply not an interlocutory order. Lastly, there are no grounds in the common law that justify the relief Searcher seeks. Searcher failed to bring its application within the ambit of Rule 6(12)(c). Rule 11 and the common law. The application should be dismissed with a punitive award of costs, such costs to include the costs of two counsel.” Cape Times