CAPE TOWN - Two men convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder of Knysna ANC councillor Victor Molosi have lost their appeal in the SCA Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA) after a family member recanted prior inconsistent statements. Knysna municipal official Mawande Makhala and former ward 4 councillor Velile Waxa were convicted on murder, possession of an unlicensed firearm and unlawful possession of ammunition charges in the Western Cape High Court and sentenced to life imprisonment. The matter dates back to July 23, 2018 when Molosi was attending a school governing body meeting at Concordia High School in Knysna. He was shot and killed on his way home. During the investigation, Makhala’s brother, Luzuko, indicated that he wished to recount his part in the murder and be treated as a witness under section 204 of the Criminal Procedure Act 51 of 1977. This allows a witness to provide evidence for the prosecution which incriminates a witness. The witness may be discharged from prosecution. Luzuko provided the police with two separate statements incriminating the men in the murder. The high court admitted the statements into evidence and convicted them. However, when Lukuzo was called upon to give evidence, he recanted the contents of his statements and testified that the incriminating portions of the statements were fabrications forced on him by the police. In his statements, Luzuko said Waxa was an independent councillor who sought the services of a hitman to kill Molosi. He had asked Luzuko if he knew such a person, which he did. The person was procured and brought from Cape Town to Knysna to kill Molosi. It also contained details about petrol money for the trip to transport the killer. This court considered the statements and found that they were not obtained in violation of Luzuko’s rights. Luzuko tried to rely on other defences, including that the statements were hearsay, that he was denied his right to legal representation and that the court failed to properly apply the cautionary rule applicable to evidence. This SCA found each defence lacking. Acting Judge Pieter Meyer said: “The trial court in deciding to admit the two statements, went further than I have found the law requires. The trial court applied s 3(1)(c) of the Hearsay Act and concluded that the evidence should be admitted in the interests of justice. I have found that the two statements are not hearsay as defined in the Hearsay Act. That challenge, for the reasons given, must fail.“ “Luzuko Makhala made an assiduous effort in his evidence in chief to exclude from his two statements those passages that incriminated the appellants and himself. The trial court rejected his explanation as to how he came to make the two statements. What the record shows is that Luzuko Makhala enquired as to whether he was allowed to have an attorney for the purpose of the trial court deciding whether to declare him a hostile witness. The trial court did not preclude him from securing the services of an attorney.“ “He suffered no infringement of his rights.“ Cape Times