CAPE TOWN - An increase to the R460 child social grant (CSG) is needed, as child malnutrition rates are high owing to single mothers and caregivers not being able to afford nutrient-dense food. The insufficient grant now forces caregivers to make choices between needs that are fundamental human rights, including choosing between feeding their children or education. This is what a new report, titled “Children, Social Assistance and Food Security”, by Black Sash, found. The study focused on households in different communities including Langa, Masiphumelele and Lavender Hill that had young children and infants which are recipients of the grant. Presenting the findings and recommendations during the launch of the report on Thursday, Dr Wanga Zembe-Mkabile, of the South African Medical Research Council and a researcher involved in the study, said foods that were being bought through the grant were of very poor dietary quality and quantity. “A few of the participants were in primary employment and others unemployed with children under the ages of 5 not attending any ECD. We had a primary caregiver who stated that she only eats supper to save food, so that her child will have something to eat. This was to shield the child from not starving like her.  “Mothers are aware of high-value foods, but these foods are too costly, highlighting the need for macro-food policies to subsidise the food basket of child support grant recipients,” said Zembe. She said the grant should be linked to an objective measure of need, such as the Food Poverty Line. Other researchers in the team included Dr Chantell Witten of the University of the Free State. Kathrine Hall, a senior researcher at the Children’s Institute, said about two million households with 13 million children were receiving child support grants; however, people were still stuck in poverty due to unemployment. “The child support grant provides income support, protects households from shocks and is shown to improve children’s nutritional outcomes. We need to continue pushing for a substantial increase to the grant, to the food poverty line as a minimum,” she said. “(We also push) for unemployed adults, including caregivers, to receive a grant for themselves; this is to avoid diluting the child support grant. Many parents depend on child grants,” said Hall. “The government keeps saying that the solution is to create employment. This is true, but it has not happened and will not happen in the near future. In the meantime, people cannot be left to starve,” she said. Cape Times