CAPE TOWN - Deputy President David Mabuza on Thursday said President Cyril Ramaphosa has established the inter-ministerial task team to respond to issues raised by traditional leaders. Addressing the opening of the National House of Traditional and Khoisan Leaders, Mabuza said the task team, which he would lead, would comprise several ministers to address the issues raised by the traditional leaders. “As (the) government, we acknowledge the issues and challenges raised by Amakhosi and Khoisan leaders, which, in the main, are about the strengthening of this key institution, and placing it at the heart of development of traditional communities to be on par with the rest of the country,” he said. The traditional leaders have over the years called on the need to resolve the land question and to improve road infrastructure to connect communities and enable economic activities including facilitating access to essential services. They have also called for investment in rural development, roll-out access to water and sanitation, great places to be incorporated into heritage sites for the promotion of tourism in traditional communities, and access to information, communication and technology. Mabuza said the issues when looked at collectively found expression in the programmes outlined in Ramaphosa’s State of the Nation Address (Sona).   He noted that Sona did not go into detail, but provided an overarching programme of action of the government for the year ahead. “We will hear more on the details as we engage in a series of dialogues with traditional and Khoisan leaders that will be led by the deputy president and supported by the Minister of Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs.” Mabuza said while the government conceded that some of the issues traditional leaders have raised have taken long to deal with and resolve, they re-affirmed government’s commitment to prioritising the issues for quick resolution He said at the apex of government, the commitment was unwavering. “The task team will endeavour to address all the issues raised by the institution of traditional and Khoisan leaders over the years to advance development in their respective communities. “We acknowledge that some of the issues have taken long to resolve.  “However, we are confident that the process we have chosen will bear fruits.” Mabuza appealed to the traditional leaders to afford the unfolding process space and opportunity to work on the issues at hand. “In taking some of these issues forward, the task team will utilise available instruments including the district development model as an implementation tool for investment in rural areas. “We believe that each of our communities has a unique set of endowments which, if unlocked, can lead to sustainable and shared growth for those communities. “Our ability to realise development in society requires partnership with institutions of traditional and Khoisan leadership as agencies of the people,” he said. Mabuza also said traditional leaders should never be limited only to ceremonial and cultural responsibilities. Instead, the traditional leadership should be seen in the broader context of daily struggles of ordinary people in the search for a better quality of life, access to economic opportunities, improved infrastructure for service delivery as well as quality health and education outcomes. “Traditional leaders should therefore see themselves as catalysts and agents of change to bring about better development outcomes in areas under the jurisdiction of traditional leadership,” he said. According to Mabuza, the government would continue to build and sustain strong collaborative and partnership platforms with traditional leaders to address poverty and underdevelopment challenges in traditional communities, among others. Cape Times