CAPE TOWN - The Coega Development Corporation (CDC) is busy comparing costs to repair the fire-damaged buildings at Parliament, as it assesses the residual strength of the ravaged structure. Department Public Works and Infrastructure (DPWI) Minister Patricia de Lille on Sunday said in a statement that the Bid Evaluation Committee recommended Coega be appointed for the job.  In consultation with the National Treasury, the DPWI appointed the Coega on Friday. “The scope of work for the assessment by Coega includes assessment of the fire damaged buildings in the parliamentary precinct to pronounce on the extent of the damage; provide professional advice on the safety of the structures and provide measures to temporarily make the structure safe to allow the investigations to proceed unhindered. “Following the submission of the initial assessment report, the service provider must submit a detailed assessment report that covers the following aspects: detailed assessment report indicating the extent of the damage and any other structural issues; pronouncement on the residual strength of the structure (including all relevant tests and analysis); proposed restorative measures with associated cost comparisons for restoration; proposed estimate of the rehabilitation project; proposed preliminary cost estimate of the rehabilitation project and pronouncement on possible long-term restorative measures,” De Lille said. Meanwhile, the case against Zandile Christmas Mafe, accused of starting the fire, has been postponed for six weeks to give investigators time to gather outstanding reports including cellphone analysis and surveillance footage. The lengthy postponement was granted despite Mafe’s legal team objecting to it, submitting that three weeks was enough time to conduct and finalise such investigations. The matter will resume on March 25 at the Cape Town Regional Court while Mafe remains in custody. National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila said the matter was postponed after the State requested the  time to finalise outstanding investigations. State prosecutor advocate Mervyn Menigo told the court that several forensic reports were still outstanding. “Our investigation team is waiting for structural engineers to inform them if the New Assembly building of Parliament is safe for them to move in and start their investigation. “The team still needs to finalise Mafe’s cellphone analysis to determine whether there were more people involved. “Certain leads have come up that need to be followed, a final detailed report on the video footage is still outstanding and analysis of his clothing still needs to be finalised to determine whether there were any accelerants. “We are asking for an eight-week postponement to allow enough time for the investigation to be finalised,” Menigo requested. Mafe’s legal team indicated they would be appealing against his denied bail application. Cape Times