CAPE TOWN - Residents from Harmony and Morgan Villages in Mitchells Plain are still battling as the City continues to issue them with high water bills and the Cape Town Community Housing Company (CTCHC’s), which owns the properties insists they have to pay before they can receive their title deeds. Since residents’ complaints last year, they said the issue has yet to be resolved with the City and CTHC not taking responsibility to solve it. Residents said for years they did not receive any water bills and in some cases the bills were reasonable between R300 and R400, then about two years ago astronomical bills of up to R100 000 were received. As part of their arrangement with CTCHC, they purchased the property in a manner where they would pay off the total in the form of rent every month and once the total price of the property was fully paid, they would receive the title deed. With this residents were also told they would receive their first 350 litres of water a day for free. Mother of four, Safia Khan said she was frustrated as they had finished paying off the house but could not receive the title deed and were sitting with a water bill of R42 000. “We used to get normal water bills of about R350 then about just before Covid we started getting very high bills and we do not use that much water. I am even too scared to use the water because of the bill. Last year our water was even switched off so we had to make arrangements for the water to go on again. My husband is the only one working, it is hard,” she said. “We received a letter in 2020 already to confirm our house was paid up but every time we go to the CTCHC offices, we are told you first have to pay up your water bill before the property can be transferred in your name.” Activist Brenda King she was inundated with similar complaints from countless residents desperate for help. City mayco member for finance, Siseko Mbandezi said: “The City continues to engage with the CTCHC and as properties are registered in the names of the beneficiaries, the basket of indigent benefits becomes applicable. The ‘freeze’ on the accounts has not been stopped and is still applicable. It is in the best interest of all, that the sooner the CTCHC registers the properties into the names of the beneficiaries, the sooner they will receive their applicable indigent benefits and the municipal accounts will be in their names as the registered property owners.” CTCHC general manager, David Masimila said they transferred over 2000 properties already and were in the process of more but “delays at the deeds office” were out of his control. “The only time we can transfer the properties is when they have paid up their properties. We have quire a few paid up in Morgan Village and have submitted their paperwork to the conveyancer but there is a countrywide backlog at the deeds office. If things can speed up at the deeds office, we will have these transfers go through, the bulk signed last year, some in 2019,” he said. In terms of the water bill, he insisted people needed to pay arrangements with the City. “I cannot speak for the City. They have used that water, they are aware they are responsible for those charges, they have to pay those costs to the City. There was a problem with the bill from the City and we can't seem to resolve the problem with the City.” Cape Times