CAPE TOWN - Months after having moved into their new homes, Eindhoven Housing Project residents in Delft have still not been connected to the electricity grid and say this is infringing on their rights to basic services. Resident Shirley de Bruin said residents moved in in August last year, and being without electricity has posed many challenges, especially for people living with disabilities. “We were told that Eskom is responsible for the connections and that we would only be connected by the end of March. We do not accept that. We said that we wanted connections by this Friday as it has been long enough living in these conditions. “We have elderly people including a 94-year-old grandmother who uses a wheelchair and children with brain damage living in the community. “How can one care adequately for our vulnerable when we don’t even have access to a basic service? “Our people have to cook on paraffin and gas which costs them about R40 per day and it poses a very big challenge especially when these houses should have been connected already,” said De Bruin. Eskom spokesperson Kyle Cookson said the electrification to Eindhoven “experienced delays” and residents will receive electricity in a phased approach with work set to start before the end of February. “The electrification project will see about 221 houses receive electricity in a phased approach. “The electrification of about 100 houses will commence before the end of February 2022 with the remaining houses to receive electricity between 1 April 2022 and 31 March 2023. “The project experienced a delay due to insufficient contracting capacity to commence with the work. This has since been taken care of and the work will commence as planned,” said Cookson. Human Settlements mayco member Malusi Booi placed the responsibility of electrification squarely on Eskom saying that the City has installed all internal electricity connections, including plug points and light switches, inside of the units. “As the supply typically takes some time to be completed, as a matter of course, the City gives beneficiaries the option of moving in ahead of the completion of electrification by Eskom. This is to ensure the beneficiaries’ units do not become illegally occupied while the Eskom-installations are awaited or become vandalised and damaged which would be to the extreme disadvantage of beneficiaries.” Cape Times