MURDER-accused police constable Richard Smit, who now faces a Schedule 6 offence for the alleged murder of his girlfriend Natasha Booise, will remain behind bars after his bail application was yet again postponed due to his lawyer, William Booth, not arriving at court. National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila said Booth was not present at the Piketberg Magistrates Court on Thursday due to being ill. The matter was postponed to February 24. Smit appeared at the Piketberg Magistrates Court (Thursday) morning for a scheduled bail application but it had to be postponed as the accused's legal representative was not in court. The prosecutor, Henrietta Kruger, informed the court that Booth was booked off sick. “She then submitted a Schedule 6 Certificate confirming that the accused will be charged under Schedule 6 for the murder of Natasha Booise. The magistrate was not impressed with Booth's absence or the absence of another lawyer from his office to represent the accused in court today. He told the accused that he contacted Booth's office to ask for another lawyer to be present in court today. He promised that he will deal with the issue of postponements as bail is supposed to be dealt with expeditiously," said Ntabazalila. Magistrate Pieter Grundlingh further said the case had attracted attention and the continuous delay was not in the  interest of justice and not in the interest of the community. Grundlingh also indicated that arrangements had to be made in order to accommodate the bail application. Grundlingh ordered that Booth, or another lawyer, be present in court at 9am at the next appearance in order to deal with the bail application. Furthermore, Smit's request to be moved to Saron Prison was dismissed. "(Grundlingh) dismissed the accused's request to be detained at Saron Prison as he was mixed with other prisoners at Malmesbury Prison. The magistrate said his reasons were vague but he will endorse a communication to the Malmesbury Prison authorities to investigate if any threat to the well being of the accused at the prison arises," said Ntabazalila. Ntabazalila said the State was ready to oppose bail. "All the postponement requests have been made by the defence so far," he said. Smit faces seven charges which include the alleged murder of Booise, two counts of attempted murder of Roslin Kaaiman and Erin Plaatjies, discharging a firearm in a built-up area, handling of a firearm while under the influence of a substance which has an intoxicating or narcotic effect and two counts of assault. Smit allegedly shot and killed Booise with a service pistol while she was taking a walk with visiting family on January 2.