CAPE TOWN - Convicted for the murder and rape of 37-year-old Bianca Matroos, Revticken Muller, will have to wait to hear his fate as sentencing proceedings got underway at the George Magistrates Court this week. After being missing for two days, Matroos' lifeless body was found among concrete blocks on an open field at the George Riding Club. This was the morning after she went to the Nitro nightclub on November 14, 2009, along with her sister, where she was also seen to be in the company of Muller. Muller is expected to be sentenced on March 22.  According to court documents, Muller had gone to the club with two friends - Andries Jakobus and Stefaans Juries - in a red Golf. At about 1.30am, an inebriated Matroos left the club with Muller and his friends in the Golf but did so unwillingly after she had got out of the car but was redirected back to the vehicle from the trolley area. "Jakobus and Juries dropped Muller and Matroos behind the mosque at Volkswagen Crescent, Lavalia. That was the last time Matroos was seen alive, when she was with Muller. "At 6.30am, on November 15, 2019, Muller was seen with muddied clothes coming from the direction of the George Riding Club, Glenwood Avenue.  He was wearing the same clothing that he wore the previous night at the night club and when he was last seen with Matroos," court documents read. Matroos' body was discovered by Gavin Joseph on November 17, 2009 at about 6am. Her sister who was with her at the night club, identified the body. According to Joseph’s evidence, he was collecting golf balls at the George Riding Club and practising his handicap when he came across Matroos’ half-naked body. Muller - a father of two - was arrested on November 24, 2019 at the same nightclub from which he had taken Matroos, following an investigation by SAPS. It was found that he had raped and murdered Matroos, and robbed her of clothing items including underwear, socks, takkies and a grey beanie. Heads of argument documents read that Muller, in his warning statement, said he could not recall what had happened on the night where he had murdered Matroos and that he was “too drunk”. During the trial, the state had called 18 witnesses to the stand. Muller testified and no other defence witnesses were called. A post mortem examination on the body was conducted by George’s head of the Medical Unit in Forensic Pathology, Dr Mariette Hurst, and the cause of death was found to be "blunt force head and chest injuries, aspiration of blood”. Acting Western Cape Director of Public Prosecutions, Advocate Nicolette Bell welcomed the conviction saying it was a first step in ensuring justice for the deceased. She added that the fight against gender-based violence and femicide were one of the top three priorities for the National Prosecuting Authority. Cape Times