CAPE TOWN - The grieving family of cousins Mkhululi Thovane and Nolufefe Zongile who died in a fire along with three others in Site B, Khayelitsha are still struggling to come to terms with the loss of their loved ones and are calling for the incident to be thoroughly probed. Thovane, 46, and his friend aged 34, had visited Zongile, 30, who was with her two friends Anitha Bhontsi, 25 and Sinovuyo Chali, 25, when the shack they were in was engulfed by a fire on Friday morning. City fire and rescue service spokesperson Jermaine Carelse said they were alerted to the blaze at about 1.50am. While firefighters managed to quickly extinguish the blaze, they came across the bodies of five people who had sustained fatal burn wounds. Police spokesperson FC Van Wyk said an inquest case was opened for investigation following the incident in K2 Block and the cause was unknown at this stage. Speaking about the tragic morning, Thovane’s sister Nonzaliseko said she was about to sleep when she heard someone shouting outside. “That night I was struggling to sleep, I’m not sure why. My cousin who stays in the same yard where Nolufefe’s shack is erected was outside calling for help. I rushed to the scene because I remembered my brother was there around 8pm. The flames were big and we thought maybe there was no one inside because it was quiet and no one was responding when we called their names.” She said for a moment there was a sense of relief until her cousin told the family she believes a number of people might be trapped inside. “She apparently heard them crying for help and attempted to extinguish the flames by the burglar bars and the door so that she would open but couldn’t. That is when she came to call everyone.” She said they were puzzled because the fire was mainly at the front of the shack and not at the back where a candle could have been. “We are asking the police to leave no stone unturned,” she said. The families have appealed for assistance as they made funeral arrangements. To assist, the public can contact family representative Malala Nxiba on 066 501 4800 Cape Times