CAPE TOWN - As the new national minimum wage kicks in next month, domestic workers have been encouraged to report non complying employers to the nearest labour Centre or the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration (CCMA). The National Minimum Wage (NMW) including for domestic workers has been increased from R21.69 to R23.19 per hour effective from March 1, 2022. “If the employer is a first offender, the value of the underpayment to the employee is doubled and for the second offence, the value of the underpayment is tripled,” Advocate Caroline Kwetepane  said. The Department of Labour also requested workers to make sure they provide all the relevant information such as the name and address of the employer, the facts about the dispute and if money is involved, how much, when lodging a dispute. Chief Inspector Mncedisi Khambula added that there were challenges faced by inspectors in conducting inspections in private homes. “Inspections in private homes are challenging as owners are also protected by the Constitution of the Republic with the right to their privacy,” Khambula said. The inclusion of domestic workers into the Compensation for Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act necessitated the registration of their employers with the Fund. The Compensation Fund’s (CF) Nobantu Morrison said: “The Compensation Fund pays the service provider reasonably, however, for permanent disability, the worker will receive monthly pension, chronic medication, assistive devices, commutation, constant attendance allowance and bursaries and vocational training.” In the case of fatal incidents, the CF covers funeral expenses, widow’s lump sum, children’s pension of 60 per cent for those below 18 years, widows pension until death, bursaries for children, commutations as well as partial and wholly dependency. The department has also reminded that domestic workers are also eligible for benefits such as unemployment, illness, maternity, parental, adoption, dependents, commissioning parental, Covid-19 TERS and Workers Affected by Unrest (Wabu), and illness. Cape Times