Cape Town - Firefighters were forced to withdraw after being attacked while attending a fire which claimed the life of a 5-year-old in KTC, Gugulethu at the weekend. The firefighters came under attack from KTC residents after they arrived at the scene on Saturday evening. City Fire and Rescue Service spokesperson Jermaine Carelse said the fire engine’s windscreen was damaged and the crew had to withdraw and drive to the Nyanga police station to report the incident. “Fire Control received the call at 19:52 on Saturday. The first arriving appliance, from Ottery, was on scene at 20:09. “The crew ran out a fog jet to extinguish the fire when community members told them to leave,” said Carelse. KTC community activist Nosiseko Adams condemned the attack on the firefighters. “Look, I understand the frustration by residents, but attacking firefighters was not a good idea because we are going to need them, and when we call them, they will have to be escorted by the law enforcement and that will take time. “They need to trust and not doubt when rendering their services to us. “We are the same people who are complaining about the lack of services in our communities, but again we attack the same people. We complain, this does not make sense at all. It’s not only firefighters being attacked, (also) ambulances,” said Adams. Police spokesperson FC van Wyk said circumstances leading to the fire were under investigation. “Gugulethu SAPS has opened an inquest case for investigation after the body of a 5-year-old boy was found on Saturday at 19:25 after a fire was extinguished,” said Van Wyk. City Mayco member for safety and security JP Smith said a fire crew that had to wait to enter an area until an enforcement escort arrived meant a slower response time to emergencies and increased the risk of lives or property lost. “We have in recent years seen sustained attacks on our firefighters and other emergency and enforcement staff. “A fire engine that has had its windows smashed through stoning, or hoses cut, is out of commission for weeks, if not longer, which means one fewer fire engine to respond to an emergency. So as we appreciate these fine new firefighting appliances that the City is proud to add to its fleet, let’s also take a moment as a society to reflect on our duty and responsibility to the many uniformed staff who sacrifice their time and risk their lives for us on a daily basis,” said Smith. Anyone with information about the fire can anonymously contact Crime Stop at 08600 10111 or SMS Crime Line at 32211. Cape Times