Cape Town - Continuing its transformation agenda, Rhodes University has renamed two of its residences after two of South Africa’s Struggle icons, Solomon Kalushi Mahlangu and Dr Hugh Masekela. The university’s Jan Smuts Hall was renamed Solomon Kalushi Mahlangu Hall, and Hilltop Hall was renamed Hugh Masekela Hall. Solomon Kalushi Mahlangu was a South African freedom fighter, Struggle activist and operative of the ANC militant wing Umkhonto we Sizwe. He was born on July 10, 1956, and was hanged in 1979 by the then government. Before going to the gallows, he reportedly said: “Tell my people that I love them and that they must continue the fight. My blood will nourish the tree that will bear the fruits of freedom, A luta continua.” Dr Hugh Ramapolo Masekela was a South African trumpeter, flugelhornist, cornetist, singer and composer who was described as “the father of South African jazz”. Masekela was known for his jazz compositions and for writing well-known anti-apartheid songs such as “Soweto Blues” and “Bring Him Back Home”. He was honoured by Rhodes University and awarded an Honorary doctorate in April 2015. “Rhodes University’s policy on naming and renaming buildings, facilities, academic units and sculptures aims to correct past imbalances caused by apartheid. In the university residences and halls, we are trying to find neutral names that do not invoke any discomfort among the diverse groups of students we now have. We want to make sure that our students see that our history and experiences are reflected in the life of our university,” said deputy vice-chancellor: Academic and Student Affairs, Professor Monnapula-Mapesela. The day was colourful, with students singing Struggle songs, cultural dances, praise singing and poetry, a true reflection of who Mahlangu and Bra Hugh were. The Mahlangu family spokesperson and Mahlangu’s nephew, Gideon Mahlangu, said: “We thank Rhodes University and its students for seeing it fit to honour the brave warrior in this manner. We believe students will be able to learn the history of Solomon Kalushi Mahlangu as we strongly believe that history is important in building the future of South Africa.”  Cape Times