Cape Town - In South Africa about 1 500 people die from drowning annually, with two-thirds being young people under the age of 30. This is according to Lifesaving South Africa, who are raising awareness ahead of World Drowning Prevention Day, observed on July 25, under the theme “Supervision”. “Through the correct and uninterrupted supervision of youth, children, and toddlers in and around aquatic resources many drownings can be avoided,” the organisation said. In 2019 the World Health Organization (WHO) reported approximately 236 000 people drown globally each year, with most drownings taking place in low and middle-income countries, particularly those with access to aquatic resources, oceans, dams, and rivers. South Africa has 2 800km of coastline and over 290 rivers and dams, lakes and ponds, Lifesaving South Africa said. “South African mortality statistics estimate approximately 1 500 people die from drowning annually in South Africa, an average of four people daily. Two-thirds (66%) of all drownings in South Africa are under the age of 30 years, with males being more than twice at risk than females. In South Africa almost 500 deaths or one third of the reported deaths occur under the age of 10 years. In the age group five to 12 years, the WHO estimates that drowning is the sixth highest cause of unnatural deaths globally. These statistics, however, do not account for those who have drowned due to floods or violence,” it said. In South Africa, they said the high percentage of drownings among the youth can be largely attributed to unsupervised access to water sources for both recreation and other purposes. “Together with the use of alcohol or substances by the youth and those supervising them, and the lack of swimming skills, Lifesaving South Africa, who since 1913 been the leading Drowning Prevention body in South Africa, has termed this year’s World Drowning Prevention Day programme “Supervision”. Through the correct and uninterrupted supervision of youth, children, and toddlers in and around aquatic resources, many drownings can be avoided,” it said. A lot more could be done by municipalities and government in terms of policies and protocols, the organisation said. Cape Times