Cape Town - An ambitious journey to develop the Urban African Youth Climate Change Manifesto has provided a comprehensive list of demands that young people in Africa have towards developing climate-smart cities. WWF South Africa, in collaboration with WWF Uganda and ICLEI Africa, under the One Planet City Challenge, recently embarked on the project with a cohort of youth from African cities, among them Kampala in Uganda, Nyamata and Kigali in Rwanda, Dar es Salaam in Tanzania, Lusaka in Zambia, Durban and Polokwane in South Africa, Gaborone in Botswana, Harare, Polokwane, Tamale and Kumasi in Ghana, and Rabat in Morocco. Three workshops were held in drafting the climate manifesto, and addressed several issues including electricity provision, urban transport and food shortages. “Because Africa is recognised as the youngest continent, with 60% of the population under the age of 25, we, the youth, believe it is important that our united voice is prioritised in the planning and development of African cities,” reads the manifesto. A lack of access to clean water remains one of the greatest challenges to urban development in Africa.  “Our call to local governments and leadership related to the water sector is to: prioritise reliable, potable and affordable access to water and sanitation services for all, including those in informal settlements; quantify the long-term benefits and value of the conservation and protection of natural-water catchment areas (“water towers”), wetlands, aquifers, water bodies and surrounding biospheres with clear entry points for private-sector engagement to improve water resource management; and implement inclusive planning processes for service delivery that prioritise community participation processes and engage adequately with local stakeholder groups and youth leaders.” The manifesto was released as the second Marine Protected Areas (MPA) Day will be celebrated on August 1. MPAs help manage part of the marine environment to promote fisheries sustainability, keep marine ecosystems working properly, and protect the range of species living there, helping people to benefit from the ocean.  In South Africa, MPAs are declared through the National Environmental Management: Protected Areas Act. “MPA Day is about sharing with more and more people the importance of our oceans by helping them explore this underwater world with us,” said Dr Judy Mann, executive of strategic projects at The Two Oceans Aquarium Education Foundation. Cape Times