Cape Town - Police have urged members of the public not to handle or pick up any explosive devices, after a passer-by picked up what appeared to be a bomb-like object at Macassar beach this week. Esmarie Fourie was walking on the beach on Tuesday evening when she picked the object up. “We were at Macassar beach and I walked around to look for interesting stuff to pick up. I saw this part of this device that was in the sand. I moved a rock to actually see what it was because at first I thought it was the handle bars of a bicycle. I was struggling to get it out but my boyfriend came to help get he thing loose. “At first, I did not know what it was. I tried to Google it but I could not see anything and I posted it on Facebook Many people commented and gave different views. Some said it could be a bomb, others said it could be a light circuit and some suggested that I should contact the Saps,” said Fourie. Police spokesperson FC Van Wyk said the Provincial Bomb Disposal Unit responded to the scene and found an empty casing of a rifle grenade which was a “dummy”. “The Provincial Bomb Disposal Unit was called to attend to a complaint on Tuesday, in the area between Monwabisi and Macassar Beach. They removed (the object) from the scene. Members of the community are requested not to handle or pick up any explosive devices that may cause a threat and/or injuries,” said Van Wyk. After a picture of the object was shared on social media, people suspected that it could be an explosive device from Rheinmetall Denel Munition (RDM). RDM chief executive Jan-Patrick Helmsen said their experts had studied the photographs of the object and could confirm it was not a product manufactured by RDM. “RDM notes some suggestions that the ammunition found on Macassar Beach is an RDM product. We are, however, cooperating with the SAPS and authorities to determine the exact nature of the ammunition. RDM is also available to assist in the demilitarization of the ammunition in a safe and responsible way once the authorities have completed their investigation. We implore residents to proceed with extreme caution should they ever come across anything similar. For your own safety, do not move or handle such items, and immediately call the police or bomb squad, who can remove it safely,” said Helmsen. Macassar ward councillor Peter Helfrich said many residents were concerned following the discovery. “When I initially heard about the matter I contacted the senior management of the RDM. They stated that they do not make, nor have they ever made this particular item. “In their response to me, they confirmed that the item is an old teargas grenade which was made to be fired from a rifle. According to them, it was on the beach because these types of items were historically tested in wide open spaces like beaches,” said Helfrich. Cape Times