Cape Town - Murder accusations have flung in Beaufort West as police are investigating a crimen injuria complaint lodged against Central Karoo District mayor Gayton McKenzie brought by an activist. McKenzie has denied the allegations, saying he “only repeated what he was told”. McKenzie is alleged to have made the remark implicating community activist Brian Jooste during an interview with a radio station earlier this month. "I never accused him of murder. I said on my live that people told me he murdered someone and that I shouldn’t see him, and I saw him still. It is there on the live,” McKenzie said. Jooste said he felt compelled to lodge the criminal complaint because the accusation has had a severe damage to his reputation. Jooste on Wednesday said he wanted the law to take its course. “During the interview, Mr McKenzie was asked about alleged gangsters that visited his office. On this, his response was that he used to be in the underworld and that a lot of them knew him. With that said, he suddenly remembered that an activist, Brian Jooste, wrote about the alleged gangsters visiting his office. That is me. He then made the serious allegations that I am involved in a murder. The allegations against me are false and cause severe damage to my reputation as a social and community activist,” he said. Police spokesperson Captain Malcolm Pojie said an investigation on the matter is ongoing. "Beaufort West detectives are investigating a crimen injuria case based on allegations by the complainant that the mentioned person has smeared his good name and character during a interview that was broadcast on a community radio station in Beaufort West on July 5 at about 5pm.  “As soon as (the) investigation is concluded, the docket will be submitted to the SSP for a decision whether to prosecute. No arrests have been made," Pojie said. SACP Central Karoo District spokesperson Mawonga Furmen said: “His unwarranted attack and false accusation on Brian Jooste clearly expose his character of not respecting other people.” Patriotic Alliance national executive member Sydney James said McKenzie was "being attacked by the same people he is fighting for". "He clearly states that he was informed about the deed by someone that did not want him to meet Brian. He sat in his office for an hour. I do not see any case of crimen injuria," he said. Cape Times