Cape Town - “I know something went wrong, I know you not a murderer.” These were the words of the emotional mother of former cop Jean-Paul Malgas, accused of killing a Sea Point constable and two patients at New Somerset hospital. Malgas made a brief appearance wearing a grey jacket and red hoodie at the Cape Town Magistrate’s Court on Thursday via Audio Visual Remand (AVR) system. He revealed that the medication he’s taking was assisting him following claims of being suicidal. The 39-year-old is in Pollsmoor prison. Malgas faces three charges of murder, a charge of illegal possession of a firearm, a charge of illegal possession of ammunition and robbery. The robbery charge stems from when he allegedly disarmed Constable Donay Phillips who had been at the hospital safeguarding a suspect. Malgas was a patient at the hospital when he allegedly shot the cop and proceeded to shoot two patients. State prosecutor Adenaan Gelderbloem told the court that an agreement was reached with Malgas’s lawyer, Shaun Balram, to postpone the case for further investigation until August 12. “The State has received one post-mortem report so far and is waiting for two that are outstanding. Ballistic report, DNA report and prima residue report are outstanding. The State has received about five witness statements so far. The identity parade is also still outstanding,” said Gelderbloem. Magistrate Ronel Oliver called Malgas’s family including his mother and sister who were present in court and allowed them to greet him as part of a wellness enquiry. The family waved and the accused waved back. “How are you doing? You look strong, I know you not a murderer,” said the emotional mother. Oliver quickly intervened saying the family should do a consultation with the accused in prison. Balram also questioned Malgas about his health claiming he had been suicidal before. Malgas said he was getting better as he was taking treatment. “I’m on medication and it is helping me get better,” he said. Balram said the incident had been hard on the family and he would visit his client to get more details about his medication and what he was diagnosed with. National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila said Malgas has not indicated that he was changing position of not wanting bail, but if he does, the State will oppose his bail application. Cape Times