Cape Town - Home Affairs Minister Dr Aaron Motsoaledi has spent R15 million on advisory committees and a ministerial review panel that looked into issues ranging form elections to permits, and the server crashing at the Government Printing Works. DA MP Adrian Roos wrote to Motsoaledi enquiring about the costs incurred and scope of work by Justice Dikgang Moseneke’s inquiry on free and fair local government elections; the ministerial advisory committee on electoral reform; and the task team reviewing e-permits issued since 2004, as well as an investigation in loss of data at the Government Printing Works. In his written response, Motsoaledi said the total fees incurred in the Justice Moseneke inquiry were R2 544 169.09. He said Justice Moseneke waived his entitlement of R800 000 fees in favour of the University of Pretoria, while the remaining R849 000 was paid to the team of researchers and administrative support personnel. “The deliverables in respect of the Moseneke Inquiry was a report on the likelihood or otherwise that the (Independent Electoral) Commission would be able to ensure that the general elections of municipal councils in 2021 would be free and fair, in view of the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic. “Justice Moseneke presented the report on July 20, 2021,” he said. Motsoaledi also said the budget allocated to the ministerial advisory committee on electoral reform and the task team to review permits issued since 2004 was R10 000 000, and R9 144 000 was incurred. “Fees were billed in line with National Treasury regulations and the Department of Public Service and Administration’s hourly fee rates for such committees.” He said the report of the ministerial advisory committee on electoral reform would be tabled before the portfolio committee, in due course. The report of the task team tasked to review permits issued by the department would also be tabled before the portfolio committee in due course. Motsoaledi said R3 771 156.70 was budgeted for the investigation within the Government Printing Works on the loss of financial data. “The review panels’ remunerations were determined in accordance with National Treasury regulations and the Department of Public Service and Administration’s hourly rates for committees,” he said. The report was presented to the portfolio committee earlier this week and it found that the server had collapsed last year due to poor maintenance of the ICT infrastructure, most notably the non-replacement of the batteries. According to Motsoaledi, there was no financial cost incurred in the investigation into the  loss of CVs at the Government Printing Works. “An internal investigation was done by the security management unit and the matter was also further referred to the Hawks. No external service provider was utilised to do the investigation,” he said. “Consequently, no financial implications were incurred by the Government Printing Works,” Motsoaledi said. Cape Times