Cape Town - The process to decommission Driftsands Nature Reserve near Blue Downs owing to land invasions is at its legal stage.  The reserve stands to lose its provincial nature reserve status, with the national Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment giving the green light for the decommissioning. The reserve’s threatened ecosystems such as the Cape Flats Dune Strandveld and associated wetlands have become restricted to small, isolated fragments. Around March, local government, environmental affairs and development planning MEC Anton Bredell published in the government Gazette, the intent to de-proclaim Driftsands following a complaint from CapeNature which spent R214 020 in attempts to demolish illegal structures built in the reserve. A 60-day process for public written representations or objections concluded in June. CapeNature’s general manager Petro van Rhyn said the withdrawal of the nature reserve status meant the land would no longer be legally recognised as a protected area. “The lifting of ‘nature reserve’ status means that the protected area declaration will be withdrawn and the land in question will no longer be legally recognised as a protected area. As such, CapeNature will no longer manage the land according to the prescripts of the National Environmental Management: Protected Areas Act. “The transformation of the site and associated loss of biodiversity due to unlawful occupation means the loss of a large remnant of a threatened ecosystem that is largely confined to the Cape metro.  “The Kuils River flood plain remains a valuable and important flood attenuation ecosystem service together with built flood-attenuation infrastructure such as the Driftsands Retention Dam,” she said. Van Rhyn said limited resources and limited law enforcement capacity made it difficult to defend the land from mass unlawful occupation. The Department of Forestry, Fisheries and Environment could not respond to requests for comment yesterday.  The more than 10 000 families who have occupied the reserve since the Covid-19 peak in 2020, say they fear that this could be the City and provincial government’s “way of delaying services” to them. Some have requested that the human settlement department relocate them elsewhere. A resident, Nomfundo Zamani, said she moved to the land with her family, because she couldn’t afford rent after being retrenched. “We are not here because we wanted to deliberately put our lives at risk or want free things, some of us really had no choice. My landlord got impatient because I could no longer afford my rent.  “Maybe if I was not a single mother, things would have been better. If the government is willing to assist us to move in a place that has services we would. We have never rejected that offer, we have stated that to them,” said Zamani. Human settlements Mayco member Malusi Booi said the City was unable to assist the unlawful occupiers. “Numerous newly established communities are demanding services, but currently the City is unable to cater for these unplanned settlements, as existing recognised informal settlements are prioritised on the basis of available resources, which are not limitless. Service provision is a budgeted mandate,” Booi said. ANC provincial agriculture spokesperson Patrick Marran said: “How long people will wait for services including housing at this stage is uncertain. A number of people also stay within the flood line, some on a dam wall and others below the dam wall which puts them in immediate danger.” Cape Times