Cape Town – With a passion for kickboxing since he was six, Ben Mostert, now 12, from Melkbosstrand, will have the opportunity to represent South Africa at the WAKO World Kickboxing Championship, which is being held in Italy in September. Ben’s mother, Claire Mostert, said her son has dreamt from a young age of competing in the world championships and to get his Protea colours in the sport, but he needed funding to realise the opportunity. “When he started the sport he did it because he felt he wanted to protect me from any baddies. It has been a very exciting time for us since we heard that he has been selected to compete. He has been working so hard and looks forward to the competition,” said Mostert. Mostert said their fundraising efforts will have to be done in record time for Ben to go to Italy. “He needs R50 000 for all the basic costs to be covered. We have had a BackaBuddy campaign live for about three weeks now, where the support has come in. Due to it being a national competition, the government will be able to rebate us R10 000 but we don’t know when that will be paid.  “The remainder of the costs is still quite steep but we hope to make target,” said Mostert. Ben said he was very excited for the opportunity and hoped he would make the country, his club and everyone who supported him very proud.  “Never give up on your dreams. There were many times I wanted to give up and thought I will never be good enough. But my kickboxing coach, Shihan Dave Venter, and rugby coach, Rouxan Vermuelen, always pushed me to be the best version of myself and they believed in me and encouraged me when I needed it most,” Ben said.  Ben competed at the South African championships in Mossel Bay recently and walked away with top spot in his age group an, will also, before the Italy competition, take part in the African Continental Championships to be held in Benoni during August. “(The Continental championships) is where they make the final selection for the World Combat Games in 2023 in Saudi Arabia. His big dream is to represent SA in the Olympics, and this is the stepping stone to that. Ben has worked hard in kickboxing since he was six and is very passionate about the sport.  “He has always wanted to represent South Africa at the WAKO World Champs, and now that he has been chosen for the national team, it’s like a dream come true,” said his mom. To support Ben’s journey to Italy, visit: www.backabuddy.co.za/champion/project/ben-mostert Cape Times