Cape Town - Rent-a-cop, a new service introduced by Stellenbosch Municipality, has some residents confused and asking why they need to pay for a service they are entitled to as ratepayers. This after the municipality announced that it now allows private entities, businesses and organisations to “acquire the services of dedicated Traffic or law enforcement officers on contract”. Stellenbosch Municipality spokesperson, Stuart Grobbelaar said: “Council adopted several progressive policies in 2021 aimed at improving safety in our municipal area. One such policy allows for public-private partnerships whereby organisations can acquire trained officers on contract. These law enforcement officers will not act as private security and can only perform their functions on public/municipal property (parks, roads, open areas, etc.) “This will not take away from the already existing law enforcement and traffic services that continues as normal but will rather augment the services and ensure more visibility on the ground. As a result, this will also free up resources that can be used in more disadvantaged areas.” He did not answer questions about the price for a rent-a-cop, or how much money would go to the officer and to the municipality. JuJu Mbikwana from the Klapmuts Development Forum said: “They are saying they want to create more job opportunities. My personal view, what then will happen with other security companies because everyone will hire from them, the security industry will suffer. They’ve got facilities but they are not using their own securities which you can hire. They cannot approve without consulting stakeholders, I only found out on social platforms. We will sit with them next week to get a better understanding.” GOOD Stellenbosch Municipality councillor, Christie Noble added that they would write a letter to Speaker, Quintin Smit, for clarity on the initiative. Noble said police visibility was not an issue in Stellenbosch. “I think what's happening in Stellenbosch is the council structures within law enforcement are not up to scratch. Some law enforcement officers are even confused, they have been demoted from law enforcement, to collecting money in parking lots.” He questioned job creation as a reason for the initiative, as he said there had not been a call to recruit for more officers. Policy analyst, Nkosikhulule Nyembezi said meaningful consultation with citizens would be best before implementing private-public partnerships. “Public-Private partnerships are beneficial in instances where they improve access and quality of public service to citizens. However, the government must consult and take reasonable measures to ensure that the provision of services through such partnerships is affordable and in public interest, not only to serve financial interests of politicians and private businesses. “Citizens have genuine concerns about proposed outsourcing of Traffic or Law Enforcement Officers by municipalities, including the potential high costs of such a move and the potential for abuse of personal information and human rights of citizens by individuals and institutions not directly accountable to citizens. The negative experience of citizens with privatisation of smart meter water services, for example, demonstrate how poor households were overcharged, subjected to water cuts, and forced to survive on water supply through dripping taps. Middle-income households were overcharged because of incorrect metre readings and for water leakages caused by broken water pipes. “It will be best for municipalities to meaningfully consult citizens and find consensus on inclusive solutions before implementing private-public partnership plans for the provision of basic public services.” Cape Times