Cape Town - Global reductions in Covid-19 testing may have impacted on the detection of the new Omicron Covid-19 sub-variant, BA 2.75. Similarly, the variant has not been confirmed to have been detected in SA. World Health Organization (WHO) director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said the new sub lineage of the Omicron mutations was found in India, which the authority was “following”. “First, testing has reduced dramatically in many countries. This obscures the true picture of an evolving virus and the real burden of Covid-19 disease globally. “It also means that treatments are not given early enough to prevent serious illness and/or death. “Second, new treatments, especially promising new oral antivirals, are still not reaching low- and low-middle income countries, depriving whole populations that need them. “Third, as the virus evolves, vaccine protection – while still really effective at preventing serious disease and death – does wane. Decreasing immunity underscores the importance of boosters, especially for the most at-risk,” Ghebreyesus had said. He added that each wave of the virus left more people with long-Covid or post-Covid conditions. Enquiries to the national and provincial health departments on whether the variant has been detected in South Africa, had not been answered by deadline. Of the essential steps to take, Ghebreyesus encouraged people to “vaccinate and boost those at most risk”. “This includes older people, people with chronic illnesses, the immuno-compromised and health workers. Then build up the wall of immunity throughout the population. Two, make new oral antivirals and other treatments available to all. Working with Global Fund and UNICEF, WHO has developed an allocation mechanism to support countries as antivirals become available. “So far, 20 countries have accepted allocations of Molnupiravir (the first oral, direct-acting antiviral), which has moved into distribution,” said Ghebreyesus. He had said that the organisation was still trying to finalise with Pfizer the appropriate terms and conditions for low- and middle-income countries. “It is crucial to accelerate research and development into next generation vaccines, tests and treatments. WHO is working with scientists and researchers around the world to make this happen through the many networks working with the R&D Blueprint, and the Solidarity Trials for Vaccines and Therapeutics, to help make clinical trials speedier and more efficient. We don’t know what the next variant will be like. That is why we need to develop the next generation of counter measures quickly,” said Ghebreyesus. Cape Times