Cape Town - Tributes have poured in for avid racer and Retreat doctor Shaheed Mugjenkar after he tragically died following a high-speed crash at Killarney International Raceway at the weekend. Mugjenkar had participated in a Motor Sport South Africa (MSA) drag racing event on Saturday when he lost control of his Opel Kadett drag racing vehicle and crashed into safety barriers at the finish line. In a statement, Killarney International Raceway said the event was stopped after the crash, which occurred just after midday. “Mugjenkar lost control of his Opel Kadett drag racing car after the finish line. The car veered across the drag strip, and rolled over several times before hitting the safety barriers, ultimately landing on its side. Marshals and medical personnel were immediately in attendance, and Dr Mugjenkar was taken to hospital in a critical condition. “Sadly, we have since been informed by hospital staff that he succumbed to his injuries later during the day with his family present at the hospital. He was a member of the club and a regular competitor for a number of years. The Western Province Motor Club extends its heartfelt condolences to his family. Our thoughts and prayers are with them at this sad time. The matter will be fully investigated to determine the exact cause of the crash,” the statement read. Mugjenkar was buried according to Muslim rites on Sunday afternoon out of his Rylands home.  He was laid to rest at the Pooke Road Muslim burial site. Tributes from Mugjenkar’s patients, family and friends in the racing fraternity poured in on social media, where the doctor was described as “humble” and a “local legend”. “I'm angry. I'm frustrated. I'm empty. I'm regretful. I'm sad. I'm depressed. How can such a beautiful soul be taken from us so unexpectedly? Dr Shaheed Mugjenkar, you were my doctor and the Choice doctor for 10+ years. You'll be forever in every Choice boy's heart. You were more than my doctor: You were my friend. “Nobody knew how often you donated to our feeding scheme (with my promise) not to make it public. You were the most humble person I've ever known. Allah will accept you amongst His angels. All my love, respect, admiration,” a post read. Another tribute read: “Mugjenkar was a member of the (MSA) membership and an everyday competitor for a number of years and was affectionately generally known as ‘Doc’ on the racetrack and to many others as a knowledgeable medical physician”. Cape Times