Pretoria - Thank you for bringing the heat to Morocco and giving South Africans a reason to celebrate even if it's just for a moment. The OR Tambo International Airport was a hive of festivities and celebration earlier today as thousands of South Africans braved the winter cold to give the African reigning champions a fitting welcome back home. Self-proclaimed number one supporter Joy Chauke said being able to watch the girls winning the final match live in Morocco on Saturday (July 23) was something she would cherish for the rest of her life. Chauke said she was telling the players from the moment the game began that there was no need for extra time as they already had the win in the bag. Hundreds of fans await the arrival of #BanyanaBanyana at OR Tambo airport after their #Wafcon triumph over Morocco. #BanyanaBanyanaVictory #WAFCON2022 #WAFCONFinal @IOL pic.twitter.com/MKYl0y6uhe Chauke said she was happy that Banyana Banyana were finally being recognised for their hard work and would moving forward be getting what they truly deserved. She urged everyone to focus on the girls' win instead of letting issues of pay discrepancies between male and female soccer players steal the moment, as they were finally going to get what they deserved. "It was hot in Morocco and Banyana Banyana brought the heat. We are happy and proud as South Africans that since 1996, we once again have something to celebrate as they've brought home the cup." "Banyana Banyana you made us proud by bringing the trophy back home to us, in fact, you helped us even momentarily to forget our stresses of load shedding, the pandemic and everything else," Chauke added. Carlo Freeman said the win by the team was something that the country really needed, as this had united everyone and given residents, even more, to look forward to. The Wafcon winners #BanyanaBanyana on stage at OR Tambo with their trophy after arriving back. @Banyana_Banyana @IOL pic.twitter.com/dzNS9tGZ4p Johannesburg resident Collen Davidhoff said it was a privilege to be a part of the welcoming party for the team of players as this was something no other country could take credit for. Goalkeeper Kaylin Swart said there were not enough thank you's in the world or the dictionary to say thanks to South Africans for the continued support they'd shown them. Swart said the immense love and support they received also showed the team that they were seen and recognised but most importantly that their countrymen and women were supporting them whether it be silently or like this (today) where they came to welcome them home in their numbers. "We deserve to give the country something to smile about and what better way to do this than to do it with a championship win. We are just taking it in and enjoying the celebrations." Hundreds of fans await the arrival of #BanyanaBanyana at OR Tambo airport after their #Wafcon triumph over Morocco. #BanyanaBanyanaVictory #WAFCON2022 #WAFCONFinal @IOL pic.twitter.com/l6IhOQubyY "When we started this camp on June 10 everyone had one goal in mind and the World Cup was not on our radar because we knew if we win the Afcon we qualify and that is what we were gunning for." Speaking of the moment she realised that they had won, Swart said she was still taking in the moment. "I couldn't even feel my legs, that's how fast I ran to celebrate that last goal. It was an amazing feeling and I still get goosebumps thinking about it. You had to be there, despite the odds we stood tall and came out victorious." Pretoria News