Cape Town - The Buffalo City Municipality says it has concluded its visits to taverns and shebeens in the Scenery Park area on Monday where it noted various compliance issues at establishments. The visits were a follow-up to weekend raids by police also targeting various areas in Buffalo City, including Scenery Park. Eight taverns were visited and various compliance issues were observed. “All the taverns had a valid license trading certificate with only one not having a copy on the premises and this resulted in an on site fine issued. “Other transgressions that were picked up were related to the non-validity of the fire extinguisher, unapproved structural arrangements, small and singular exit and entry points and non-compliance in the kitchens. There was also an alarming number of patrons in most of the establishments,” the municipality said. The Metro together with the Eastern Cape Liquor Board will conduct a workshop for all its 100 councillors to ensure that they are aware of by-laws and their responsibilities. “There will also be more awareness campaigns and joint operations to regularly check all 19 taverns in the area,” they said. Meanwhile preparations for the mass funeral service of the 21 young people who died under mysterious circumstances at the Enyobeni tavern in East London over a week ago are being finalised. Eastern Cape Community Safety spokesperson Unathi Binqose said some family members will however bury their loved ones over the weekend. The mass funeral service is set to be held on Wednesday, at the Scenery Park Sports ground. President Cyril Ramaphosa will be joined by Eastern Cape Premier Oscar Mabuyane and provincial and local government leaders. After the mass funeral service, families will be able to bury their loved ones at separate cemeteries. “Preparations for the mass funeral are at an advanced stage. The mass funeral service is going ahead as planned on Wednesday, however some family members will bury their loved ones over the weekend. But all families will be part of that mass funeral service. We are just tying up some logistics now in relation to the preparations,” Binqose said. Police spokesperson Brigadier Tembinkosi Kinana said circumstances surrounding the incident are under investigation. “The investigation into the Scenery Park incident is still ongoing. There are no new developments at this stage. At an appropriate time and once the results are out, a formal statement will be issued. It has not yet been determined as to when the results will be out,” Kinana said. Cape Times