Cape Town - Banyana Banyana coach Desiree Ellis has dedicated her team’s 2022 Women’s Africa Cup of Nations (Wafcon) triumph to supporters of South African women’s football. Banyana players will be more than R400 000 richer each after winning their first ever Wafcon crown at a packed Prince Moulay Stadium on Saturday as they beat hosts Morocco 2-1. “It means a lot to the whole of South Africa, to the coaches and players that have come before. This is for everyone that is connected to women’s football. Most importantly, the players were absolutely brilliant,” said Ellis. En route to becoming only the third team to win the African crown, Banyana had previously come short in the final on five occasions, dating back to 1995. But coach Ellis’ side shrugged off the misfortunes of the past and rose to the pinnacle of African football, thanks to a second half brace from Hildah Magaia. Banyana showed all the signs of becoming the continental champions from the outset in the competition as they won all their three group stage matches. That feat, which included beating Nigeria, was further consolidated by a winning run in the knock-out stage as they beat Tunisia and Zambia in the quarter-final and semi-final respectively. “We could have scored before half-time. We said that we must continue playing and rotating the ball. We played one ball diagonally and we got a goal. We played another ball and we got another goal. We gave a goal away poorly, but all-round our plan worked. I take my hat off to the whole team. They stuck to the game plan. When they did get behind us, the defence did well,” said Ellis, who was also crowned the CAF 2022 Coach of the Year. President Cyril Ramaphosa said: “Congratulations to Banyana Banyana on making history and winning their first ever title at the Women’s Africa Cup of National last night. They promised me that they would bring the trophy home. We cannot wait to welcome you back and thank you for flying the flag.” Safa president Danny Jordaan vowed that Safa would top up the bonus of R9.2 million it had promised the team if they won Wafcon. “We’re going to honour the commitment and even put in more than that,” an elated Jordaan told SABC Sport. “I spoke to the captain, and ,when we get back (home) we’ll sit down and sort it out. They deserve the R400 000 (incentive) each and more. “They’ve really delivered for the nation, and we are proud and must celebrate this achievement. They kept their best performances for the first match against Nigeria and now against Morocco. I think there’s no doubt here that the best team won on the night,” Jordaan said. “Congratulations to Banyana, Desiree Ellis, captain Refiloe Jane, and many of the players who really showed in this tournament that they are the supreme champions and team on the continent.” Jermaine Seoposenwe, who scored two goals in the tournament, including the winner over Tunisia in the quarter-final, was ecstatic with the way young players such as 20-year-old Karabo Dhlamini and 21-year-old Noxolo Cesane dealt with the extreme pressure inside the cauldron of the Prince Moulay Abdellah Stadium. “We are resilient. Everybody talks about us playing beautiful football, but you saw character as well. You saw players showing up, young players. Lots of people asked  … ‘Why did Des choose this team? They’re so young …”  But they brought the energy. The experienced players stepped up to another level, and everybody played their part,” the 28-year-old said. The former Portuguese-based striker dedicated the victory to the people of South Africa who are enduring hardships. “I can’t even describe how happy I am. I am just so happy for everyone, the technical team, and everyone who supported us, and it’s for everyone in women’s football who has worked tirelessly towards this goal, and we finally did it.” Banyana will fly out of Morocco with not only the African crown, but with a ticket to the 2023 Fifa World Cup in New Zealand and Australia as well. Banyana will land at OR Tambo International Airport on Tuesday at 9.30am. Cape Times