10. Missing Alzheimer’s sufferer found dead at his favourite tranquil place on Chapman’s Peak The body of elderly Gus Thompson, who went missing on July 14 in Noordhoek, has been found at his favourite tranquil place near a picnic spot on Chapman’s Peak.  9. No arrests in R89.5m cybercrime fraud from Sassa funds Nearly R89,5m was stolen from the Sassa accounts from the Postbank allegedly by the bank's employees or contractors between October 16 and 18. 8. UCT PhD student talks battling with mental health and wanting to quit A UCT mechanical engineering PhD graduate, Sherlyn Gabriel, has opened up about battling mental health and wanting to quit during her seven-year journey to obtaining her doctorate.  7. Mpofu clashes with witness during cross-examination at Mkhwebane hearing Sphelo Samuel made the statement while being cross-examined by Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane’s legal counsel Advocate Dali Mpofu.  6. Mkhwebane takes her suspension and removal from office to court Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane has taken the fight against her suspension and the parliamentary process to remove her from office to the Western Cape High Court.  5. Ramaphosa signs five proclamations authorising SIU investigations President Cyril Ramaphosa has signed five proclamations to authorise the Special Investigating Unit (SIU) to probe two departments, two state entities and a municipality.  4. Witness claims Mkhwebane refused to authorise subpoenas for politicians in Vrede Dairy farm investigation Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane refused to authorise subpoenas to former Free State premier Ace Magashule and former Agriculture MEC Mosebenzi Zwane during the investigation into the Vrede Dairy farm project. 3. Operation Dudula gives ultimatum to Witsand factories to remove ‘illegal immigrants’ About 150 members marched to factories on Wednesday to hand over a memorandum including a demand that they remove the immigrants  as their employees.  2. ANC in Western Cape has its say on step-aside policy As all roads lead to the ANC National Policy Conference, the party in the Western Cape has firmly disagreed that the step-aside  resolution should be scrapped or reviewed following proposals by the ANC in KwaZulu-Natal and Limpopo.  1. Bodies of man and woman with gunshot wounds found on Strandfontein beach Police are investigating the discovery of the bodies of a man and a woman found bound and dumped on Strandfontein beach This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Cape Times