Cape Town - Smiles from ear to ear and a loud “Yes! there goes the dog” were among the interjections that came from a packed Western Cape High Court public gallery on Tuesday as Leonard Mzingeli was handed three life terms for rape and murder. A few minutes before a nervous Mzingeli would hear his fate he aggressively stood up and pointed at a photographer to stop taking pictures of him. He had been found guilty of killing and raping Amahle Quku, 17, in 2020. Mzingeli also raped and attempted to murder another woman, Grace Mufadu, whom he stabbed more than 20 times, eight months prior to Quku’s death. He pleaded not guilty to two counts of rape claiming he was in a secret love affair with the two women. Mzingeli only admitted to the murder of Quku, claiming he choked her to death with his bare hands before dragging her body near a dam in Browns Farm, Philippi. Handing down the sentence, Acting Judge Nolundi Nyati gave Mzingeli three life terms for the rape incidents and one for murder. She further sentenced him to 15 years for the attempted murder. “Throughout proceedings the accused showed no sign of regret or remorse even when Mufadu testified. “All four offences are serious and premeditated. The accused’s claims were false that he had secret love relationships with the Quku and Mufadu. He knew they didn’t want him.” Judge Nyathi said Mzingeli’s actions showed that he could not be rehabilitated, and she ordered that the sentences be handed to the provincial police commissioner Thembisile Patekile, to highlight the type of gruesome crimes taking place so that measures could be put in place to prevent it. Mufadu said she believed if her case was initially investigated Amahle would still be alive. “It was a very hard day and looking back at how far we’ve come, it’s very surreal. “While I’m satisfied with the life terms I do wish that there was a death sentence. “He deserves that more, it hurts me a lot to know that Amahle could have been saved as the court also stated. “My message to other women is that coming to court is not easy, I don’t know how many times court adjourned because I broke down. “However, it’s important to tell your own story and take that step towards seeking justice no matter how long it takes. You will be saving many more lives,” she said.  Quku’s mother, Mandulele, was overwhelmed with emotion. “I think now I will have peace. The case had affected me so much, I had big hopes for my child.” Ilitha Labantu spokesperson Siyabulela Monakali welcomed the sentencing and appealed that all gender-based violence and femicide (GBVF) cases be treated with equal level of seriousness and urgency. Commission for Gender Equality (CGE) spokesperson Javu Baloyi shared the same sentiments, saying through the commission’s court monitoring processes, they have observed long delays in gender-based violence (GBV) cases and called upon the judicial system to ensure that all cases of GBV were resolved speedily. Cape Times