Cape Town - Forty-two schools in the province have reported incidents of vandalism and burglary during the June and July holidays, a slight increase from the 38 incidents recorded last year.  Education MEC David Maynier said most of the incidents were minor, with items stolen or damaged including bathroom fixtures, fencing, solar panels, cleaning materials, tablets, Information and Communications Technology (ICT) equipment, security and electrical equipment, and bicycles. Criminals even looted packs of sanitary pads and first aid kits. “One major incident involved damages estimated at over R121 000. The total cost of all the incidents is currently estimated at R808 600, with the estimates for some of the incidents still outstanding. That means that nearly a million rand that could have been spent on educating our learners, now must be spent on fixing wanton damage. Of particular concern is that some of the schools which fell victim to crime over the holidays had security guards, cameras, and other security features in place. We need to better understand what our schools need to ensure that they are safe from criminal attacks,” said Maynier. Maynier said he would request a meeting with Western Cape police commissioner, Thembisile Patekile, to discuss progress on these cases and those previously reported by schools and the department. “Community participation plays a pivotal role in keeping our schools safe. One of our World’s Best Schools finalists, West End Primary School, has not been vandalised in ten years, despite its location in a community battling various socio-economic issues. I intend to visit the school and others like it that have mobilised the surrounding community to take ownership of and protect the schools of the Western Cape,” he said. Sadtu provincial secretary Jonovan Rustin said theft and vandalism of schools must be reported to authorities immediately. “Sadtu has started a campaign called ‘I am a School Fan’ where we say that the community needs to protect the institutions of learning which are for the benefit of their own children therefore we want the community to embrace this campaign and ensure that during vacations they protect the property, they are eyes and ears of the school,” said Rustin. Makhaza Community Police Forum member (CPF) Lusapho Mbangiso said schools need to be protected at all times.  “We have had incidents of vandalism and theft at the schools, the schools have lost items such as laptops and other things. Since previous years, we have prioritised the issue of protecting schools during holidays because we have seen that criminals take advantage,” said Mbangiso.  Cape Tiimes