Cape Town – Plumstead residents and members of the ANC in ward 63 spent 67 minutes on Mandela Day in Plumstead Main Road fighting for the community’s library to remain open. ANC Member of Parliament, Judy Hermans and ANC provincial legislature member Khalid Sayed joined the picket. The ANC said it was appalled that the DA run City of Cape Town was closing the Plumstead public library in an age when books were expensive to buy. They said the City should be opening libraries not closing them. ANC co-ordinator in ward 63, Dr Wesley Seale said: “The City is using high renting costs as the lame excuse of closing the library.  “Yet we have identified at least three empty properties, owned by the City, into which the City can move the library.  “The City refuses to even consider this option. “This campaign of keeping our library open has broad support, including even members of the DA in the Plumstead/Constantia area.  “We appeal to more people to come out and fight for our library.  “Poorer members of our communities, the aged as well as children from neighbouring schools make use of the library for educational and recreational purposes.  “We are urging local businesses to get involved in saving this public service.” The ANC said it would continue its campaign fighting for the library to remain open and would be calling a public meeting soon. On Tuesday, Mayco member for community services and health, Patricia van der Ross said Plumstead Library was in a rented space and the lease expires on April 30, 2023. “The decision was taken by the city council on December 15, 2021 to align with the City’s decision to delimit external leases as a result of the impact of Covid-19 on the economy and the subsequent revenue decline.  “The sustainability of the City requires urgent review and council has decided to focus on its core business and function as a priority as a result of these budget constraints.” She said the library will not be relocated but permanent staff will be redeployed, while resources such as the books and equipment will be reallocated to other libraries. “Patrons will be able to use two libraries, which are in close proximity and within reach of public transport, namely Southfield (2.4km) and Wynberg (2.2km). “Libraries in the vicinity have similar programmes, such as knitting/scrabble clubs, and will continue with services to schools.  “A block loan service will be on offer to schools not able to visit the Library.” Van der Ross said the details of community engagement are being finalised and will be communicated to residents. “Reduced resources have already resulted in a decrease in some services such as reduced operating hours and fewer programmes, while some community libraries operate as satellites.  “The decline in funding has also meant less money for books, maintenance and expansion.  “It’s a difficult decision, but we need to free up funding so we can maintain services at other facilities,” she said Cape Times