Cape Town - At least nine deaths have occurred since the opening of the winter initiation season, which has sparked outrage among civil justice organisations.  The youngest victim recorded during this season was a six-year-old in Limpopo.  Sikelela Zokufa, spokesperson for initiation association, Somagwaza Institute, said they condemned the deaths of initiates. “What we have found is that the boys die mainly due to dehydration. During the traditional initiation procedure, nobody should lose their lives but we have worked with authorities in our province to ensure we have a track record where no lives have been lost this year,” said Zokufa. “We also condemn the carelessness of the traditional surgeons and carers of the initiates.  “We encourage any institutions who want to come on-board and ensure the safety of boys during the initiation time.” The South African National Council’s Civil Society Forum (SANAC CSF) said eight initiates died in the Eastern Cape since.  The group said the deaths could have been prevented if roleplayers involved, including communities, traditional leaders,  traditional health practitioners and government, worked together. CSF chairperson, Ntando Yola, said roleplayers were “failing communities and  young men due to their lack of coordination, leadership, and proactive collective action”. “It is tragic and frustrating that each year we wait to hear how many initiates have died, it is not  a question of whether there will be deaths, but it is about how many. The sad part is that there are plans in place but there are always challenges in implementation,” said Yola. According to CSF nearly 700 deaths have occurred from botched circumcision in the last decade in South Africa. “Once again, we call on the Cultural, Religious and Linguistic Communities to suspend initiation in the affected areas with immediate effect. The proud heritage of an old age African practice is being systematically undermined by the continuous unnecessary loss of lives of African males particularly in an era where there are readily available modern technologies that allow for secure shelter, adequate hydration and safe  circumcisions with minimal adverse events, let alone deaths.” Meanwhile, the Centre For Child Law has called on Limpopo government to align the Limpopo Initiation School Act with national Legislation after a six-year-old boy died at an initiation school in Modjadjiskloof. The organisation said in a statement: “The Centre for Child Law, notes with appreciation that there is provincial legislation which governs and seeks to affirm children’s best interests in this regard. However, we would like to underscore the fact that Limpopo’s provincial legislation still falls short of the required protective measures needed to ensure that unfortunate occurrences such as the 6-year old’s death does not occur in future.” Enquiries to the The Congress of Traditional Leaders of South Africa (Controlesa) and Department of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) were not answered by deadline yesterday.