CAPE TOWN – City of Cape Town field rangers managed to apprehend poachers from illegally harvesting hundreds of bulbs and indigenous plants from the Tygerberg Nature Reserve this week. Reserve staff were alerted by a visitor to three suspicious individuals who seemed to be removing plants from one of the hiking trails on Tuesday after 4pm. “Two field rangers responded to this call and managed to apprehend three individuals carrying more than 800 bulbs (geophytes) from the Tygerberg Nature Reserve western slope,” the City said. The 800 bulbs consisted of five plant species, Drimia elata, Drimia capensis, Tulbaghia capensis, Dicerothamnus rhinocerotis (commonly known Renosterbos), and Helichrysum patulum, most of which are targeted and poached as they are believed to have medicinal use. The Plattekloof Neighbourhood Watch arrived on the scene to assist the field rangers before SAPS arrested the suspects. The suspects will be charged with Contravening the City of Cape Town’s Nature Reserve By-Law 2020, as they entered the nature reserve illegally and were caught in the possession of protected plant species. “Illegal harvesting of bulbs and indigenous plants remains a challenge for us and is of great concern as it is affecting our natural biodiversity and contributing to the increasing loss of species. The presence and activities of these individuals also take away from the sense of place in our nature reserve as the peaceful and safe aspect is compromised. “I would like to thank all the role players involved in this effort, namely the helpful visitor who reported the individuals, the local neighbourhood watch and our reserve staff and rangers. This was a joint effort which was well executed by all,” said the City mayco member for spatial planning and environment, Eddie Andrews. The rescued geophytes will be planted in the previously ploughed areas, which are currently disturbed and in need of rehabilitation. A week ago, Tygerberg Nature Reserve replanted 500 bulbs that were confiscated by CapeNature officials from poachers on one of the neighbouring wine farms. Tygerberg Nature Reserve was identified as the best suitable location, being a protected area within close range of where the bulbs were removed. “The City’s conservation officials… have increased patrols to keep an eye on the reserve,” Andrews said. Cape Times