Cape Town - Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula has labelled the DA’s criticism of his remarks “shoot, but not to kill’’ if people attempt to invade the land that will house Siyahlala informal settlement families, as opportunistic. Mbalula conducted an oversight of the 27 hectare piece of land in Philippi identified to accommodate more than 1 000 people that encroached on Langa railway lines. During the visit on Tuesday, which also marked the partial reopening of the Central Line corridor, he said the newly purchased land must be protected at all costs by police and the families. “I am glad to hear that the families say they will protect this land but police and law enforcement must also protect it. I am saying to SAPS shoot, but not to kill, but with rubber bullets. Anyone who is going to (build) a shack here must be dealt with. The land must be guarded,” he said. Mbalula has since been slammed for his remarks, with DA Western Cape leader Tertuis Simmers saying the instruction was reckless and appalling. “Not only was the re-opening a complete disaster, since the train was delayed and then got stuck between stations, but Mbalula’s reckless instruction to police officers to shoot people on the railway line is nothing short of criminal,” he said. Simmers called for Mbalula to immediately retract the statement and apologise to the public. “He should rather focus on his job and ensure that when he opens railway lines with such fanfare, that the trains are actually working properly. The Transport Ministry said the DA was opportunistic and sought to rubbish the progress made in the reconstruction and recovery of commuter rail in the country and in the central line. They said the suggestion that Mbalula called for the shooting of homeless people who illegally occupy land was an embellishment of his remarks. “The statement by Simmers is out of tune with this co-operation. His statement exposes his desperation to appease the DA federal leader, Helen Zille, who threw the first stone on the matter from the comfort of her home. Neither Simmers nor Zille were at the event, yet they arrogate themselves the right to speak on behalf of those who have been working with us to ensure successful resumption of the services,” it said. Cape Times