Cape Town - Despite ongoing challenges with learner placement in the province, plans for the the Ottery Youth Care Centre continue to drag.  This came to light following a question to Western Cape Education MEC David Maynier by ANC Western Cape committee member for Education, Khalid Sayed. The centre was closed a year ago, with Sayed wanting to know what the future plans were; and what was happening with the staff. The centre had been a bridge for at-risk youths, saving them from the clutches of Cape Flats gangs, with the help of teachers, psychologists and more. According to Maynier, a year later they were still developing plans. “An inter-departmental task team coordinated by the WCED Planning Branch has been established to develop plans for 2023 and beyond. “A matching and placing process has taken place in accordance with the operational needs of the WCED and the qualifications of the employees alike. “The WCED established a Positive Behaviour Resource Centre in January 2022 and many of the staff had been placed there as well as at WCED schools. “A temporary high school – Gateway – for learners who had been unplaced, is operating on the premises of the Ottery Youth Care Centre,” the MEC said. However a source who asked not to be named said there were still a substantial number of teachers who remained at the centre with nothing to do. “The resources at this centre are just going to waste and children of colour are being disadvantaged with the closure of this centre. “The premises have amazing facilities and the teachers are there, however there is no clear plan in place. “The positive behaviour school only accommodates about 6 learners per cycle while the centre accommodated up to 90,” the source said. Maynier said that in 2010, a shift had occurred in the Child Justice legislation regarding placement of learners in conflict with the law and those in need of care and protection. “Within two years of the amended Children’s Act (2010), all functions which the Department of Basic Education (DBE) were responsible for in terms of placement of learners in conflict with the law and those in need of care and protection, became the responsibility of the Department of Social Development (DSD). “DSD increased their capacity, and the conditional registration of Ottery was ended on 30 June 2021,” he added. Sayed said: “There is a lack of imaginative thinking and political will to ensure more access to schooling.  “The centre played a key role in terms of skills development particularly for learners who have challenges.  “The response by the MEC is reflective of the lacklustre approach the department has taken to this matter.  “You cannot be closing an educational institution when you face a crisis year in and year out of unplaced learners.  “If they feel youngsters are going to other care centres, entertain the idea of re-purposing the institution.” Cape Times