10. Still no outcome in hearing about Maties urinating saga The Stellenbosch University (SU) has cited “complexities” as the reason its Central Disciplinary Committee (CDC) has yet to determine the outcome of suspended Theuns du Toit’s hearing. 9. Calls for Cape Town International Airport name change Numerous calls had been made in the past for the name change, however the department had stated that the public consultation process reached no consensus, leading to the renaming effort being abandoned. 8. Teenagers in dog fight video to face charges – NSPCA On July 8, a graphic video of dog fighting  was forwarded to the NSPCA’s Special Investigations Unit by a detective at the Aliwal North police station in the Eastern Cape. 7. Government lost battle to get people vaccinated for Covid-19 Like the rest of the world, South Africa continues to grapple with Covid-19 and how to adequately respond to the pandemic. 6. 22 killed in tavern shootings across SA In widespread massacres at the weekend, 22 people died in three violent shootings in three provinces. 5. Eskom’s chief nuclear officer at Koeberg power station resigns After 27 years at Eskom, Koeberg’s chief nuclear officer, Riedewaan Barkadien, has resigned and will take up a job at a Canadian nuclear utility in an executive position. 4. Former Sars executive sticks to his guns on Mkhwebane not giving him a hearing Johann van Loggerenberg said Mkhwebane could have heard from him, the very person who managed the so-called “rogue unit” for almost the entire period of its existence. 3. Former Sars executive disputes he changed his residential address Former Sars executive Johann van Loggerenberg on Wednesday testified virtually at the parliamentary inquiry into the fitness of suspended Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane to hold office. 2. Public protector inquiry has no predetermined outcomes – Qubudile Dyantyi The inquiry into the fitness of suspended Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane to hold office was a process that did not have predetermined outcomes, chairperson of the Section194 Committee Qubudile Dyantyi said on Monday. 1. R654 million worth of SA citrus could be destroyed, jobs lost The Citrus Growers’ Association of South Africa (CGA) says new “politically motivated” European Union regulations could see R654 million of South Africa’s citrus produce destroyed. Cape Times .