Cape Town - The homeless community in Muizenberg is mourning the loss of two of its members, Rasta and Chantel, who passed away suddenly days apart last week from chronic illnesses.  Rasta, who lived under a bridge, is said to have had a mental breakdown and struggled to breath. He ended up in hospital, where he died on July 19. Chantel, who lived on the mountain, lost her battle to cancer on July 21. Both died during a bitterly cold winter in Cape Town.  Rea Thusana Foundation founder Phinius Sebatsane said it was a difficult time for all.  “Rasta was the first person that made me feel welcomed in Muizenberg. He was labelled crazy by some but he was a genius. He was very wise. Job was his favourite person in the Bible, for obvious reasons. He didn’t have much and yet still believed in God. He was a teacher and a father to some on the street,” he said.  “The most vulnerable are struggling during this time, and those that struggle with chronic illnesses are affected the most.” Tasneem Fielies of Souper Troopers said life on the street was a struggle to survive.  “It is very sad to have lost those two humans. It is even more sad that their lives have been a struggle to survive and a struggle with illness. That is one of the worst fears of those living on the street - is dying on the street. This is also sad for those who will bury them. There are many struggles that each and every homeless person faces, which include not having a place they can call home, unless it's the streets or the pavement. Even if they were on medication one needs food to survive and they must take their medication, which most times does not happen. “The cold and wet weather also plays a role. What's even worse is the loss felt on the streets by all their family, who are not blood but who have been there for each other through everything. Sadly most of the time even their final resting place is not even a proper grave,“ she said.  Meanwhile, the South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) said over the past few years it had noted a myriad challenges faced by people living and sleeping on the streets in the Cape Town Metro and the province at large.  “The number of the homeless people has increased significantly since the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic. There have also been several complaints lodged in recent years relating to the treatment of homeless people by law enforcement agencies.” Cape Times