Cape Town - A rescue operation in Parkwood for pitbull puppies that were being forced-trained to fight has led to more dogs being saved. Cape of Good Hope (CoGH) SPCA inspectors together with the City’s Animal Control Unit swooped on a property in the area on Thursday to investigate.  SPCA chief inspector Jaco Pieterse said someone had shared video footage with them showing how the dogs were being treated.  “The estimated age of the pups is approximately four months. “The pups were being trained to become fighting dogs.  “When the pups did not want to attack each other, they were antagonised to continue fighting. The one puppy tried to get away but was unable to as he was held tightly on a leash, forced to defend himself,” said Pieterse. Pieterse along with his colleague received a court order and were accompanied by the officers of the unit to carry out raids. On the property, the inspectors found two puppies that could be seen in the video footage and they immediately seized them. “Two other dogs in terms of the Animals Protection Act were also seized.  “The entire property was searched, and further evidence was gathered. This resulted in two further addresses being raided by the team,” he said. According to Pieterse four dogs were uncovered in a horrific condition and looked abused. “The adult pitbull terrier-type dogs found had severe old and new scarring and wounds associated with dogfighting. The dogs were also being kept in dirty and parasitic conditions. The SPCA will now lay criminal charges of illegal animal fighting and animal cruelty against the culprits in terms of the Animals Protection Act. “Dogfighting is a barbaric sport and has no place in modern society. The rescued dogs are being kept at an undisclosed location for their own safety and the safety of our staff,” he said. Inspector Mark Syce said: “I am always shocked at people’s understanding of what it means to be kind to animals when they keep them in appalling living conditions and use them for fighting purposes. None of these dogs deserved the suffering they had to endure because of blood-hungry individuals.” Mayco member for safety and security JP Smith also condemned dogfighting claiming it was a form of inhumane entertainment allegedly used by criminal gangs to groom youth in communities and recruit them into a violent society.  Cape Times