10. FF Plus supports calls for parliamentary probe into Phala Phala farm The Freedom Front Plus has come out in support for calls for the establishment of a parliamentary committee to look into President Cyril Ramaphosa’s “Farmgate”. 9. ANC calls on South Africans to intensify economic transformation struggle The ANC has called on all South Africans to intensify the struggle for fundamental economic transformation, spokesperson Pule Mabe said on Sunday. 8. Home Affairs Minister Aaron Motsoaledi clarifies roles of SANDF and BMA to safeguard the borders Home Affairs Minister Aaron Motsoaledi has clarified the role of the Border Management Agency’s guards to safeguard the borders, with the SANDF still protecting and safeguarding the country’s 4 773km borderline, including the maritime coastline. 7. Ramaphosa ducks parliamentary questions on Phala Phala farm break-in President Cyril Ramaphosa remained tight-lipped about the details of the theft of $4 million (R61 million at the time) on his Phala Phala farm in Limpopo, ducking several parliamentary questions on the matter. 6. Search for missing Muizenberg sisters continues one month on According to reports, the pair were alleged to have been seen in a white Honda, but CCTV footage showed it was not the Mubaiwa sisters who had got into the vehicle near Muizenberg’s library. 5. Enyobeni tavern tragedy: aunt shares grief at losing teen ‘She promised me she would not be going anywhere, and even gave me a look that was convincing. Yet she went.’  4. Enyobeni tavern survivors tell of horror story Survivors  of the Enyobeni tavern tragedy in which 21 young people died in mysterious circumstances in East London on Sunday have come forward, detailing the events that occurred hours before the bodies were discovered. An emotional prayer service was held for the families of 21 youngsters who died at the Enyobeni tavern in Scenery Park, East London. Investigations are ongoing into the cause of the deaths. 3. More woes for deadly Eastern Cape tavern owner The double-storey Enyobeni tavern in East London, where 21 young people died under mysterious circumstances, was illegally constructed and its renovations never approved. 2. Mystery as 21 teenagers found dead in East London tavern Police Minister Bheki Cele has declared war on liquor outlets that do not comply with the law following the shocking death of 21 teenagers at Enyobeni tavern in East London on Sunday. 1. Missing Muizenberg sisters located in Johannesburg The frantic search for two missing Muizenberg sisters has ended after the girls were positively located in Johannesburg. Cape Times