Cape Town - Civic organisation Corruption Watch is the latest to publicly call for under-fire President Cyril Ramaphosa to be transparent and accountable to the nation around what transpired at his Phala Phala game farm. Ramaphosa has been under pressure amid ongoing investigations into him allegedly concealing millions in foreign currency. Five men allegedly broke into Ramaphosa's Limpopo farm and stole the cash they found hidden in furniture two years ago. Corruption Watch said they welcomed Acting Public Protector Kholeka Gcaleka’s intention to subpoena Ramaphosa for answers, stating that the lack of “any substantial information or explanation” from the president to date regarding what transpired at the game farm only serves to “fuel suspicion and mistrust”. This, after the president had requested a further extension to answer 31 questions posed to him by Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane, before her suspension, regarding the theft that Ramaphosa had conceded was not reported to the police and only to his head of security. Corruption Watch said the subpoena “strikes the right chord at a time when the country is badly in need of accountability and transparency from its leaders”. The Public Protector Act makes provision for Gcaleka to direct anyone to submit an affidavit, appear before her, or provide documents for the purpose of conducting an investigation, and under the Constitution, everyone, regardless of their position, must be held accountable, the organisation added. “The person holding the highest office in the land must be prepared to put himself forward for scrutiny, particularly at a time when the public needs and deserves answers. This latest development in a matter still shrouded in mystery and secrecy is very concerning,” said Corruption Watch executive director, Karam Singh. Professor Mzukisi Qobo, acting chairperson of the board at Corruption Watch, added: “Transparency should always be the cornerstone of a democracy, and even more so now when confidence in our leaders is at an all-time low, amidst widespread corruption, malfunctioning institutions, and pessimism that we will be able to overcome the herculean socio-economic challenges that we face as a country.” “The president has an obligation to account to the public and the institutions that are created to hold public officials to account. He must do the right thing and submit himself to the same processes that he demands of others. Otherwise, he risks eroding trust in government and damaging the ethical standing of his office.” Cape Times