Cape Town- A former Heatherlands High School financial officer, who allegedly evaded accountability by resigning during a financial irregularity investigation, will face punitive action should she take a position in the public service again. This is after the Provincial Forensic Services (PFS) recommended that the Western Cape Education Department (WCED) flag her Personal and Salary System (PERSAL) profile so that disciplinary action can be initiated against her if she returns to the public service in future. Education MEC David Maynier said the department conducted a preliminary investigation which was concluded in September 2020 against the former financial officer and a former hostel supervisor who had also previously served as the SGB Treasurer. The PFS also initiated a forensic investigation that was concluded in September last year. “It was alleged that tenants who paid rent in cash to the school’s former financial officer alleged that receipts issued to them did not contain the school’s logo (unmarked receipt register) and funds were not banked. “The former financial officer, (and) former hostel supervisor leased one of the school’s hostels to a number of professional rugby players, on behalf of the school, without written lease agreements in place. The rental income received from these rentals was neither recorded in the school’s records, nor was it deposited into the school’s bank account,” he said. Maynier was responding to ANC education MPL, Khalid Sayed’s written questions into financial irregularities at the school and the findings. The PFS probe found that lease agreements presented to tenants were disputed as not being true copies of the agreements and was also believed to reflect forged signatures. About R317 250 in rental income appeared to be unaccounted for. “Given the former finance officer’s admission that she took some of the rent paid by tenants for personal use, it is possible that the rental income which cannot be accounted for may have been misappropriated by her. PFS also identified an additional R13 400 in rental income not accounted for, for the period June 2018 to October 31 the same year, from a group of rugby players,” said Maynier. Recommendations included that a case of forgery be lodged with police where tenants claimed that their signatures were forged on the lease agreements and a case of theft regarding R13 400 in rental income that is unaccounted for. “The department advises the SGB to consider recovering the unaccounted rental income of R317 250 from the former financial officer and the R13 400 from the former financial officer and former hostel supervisor.” Maynier’s spokesperson Kerry Mauchline confirmed on Wednesday that a flag was placed on the Persal profile for the staff member involved. Meanwhile Sayed said the incident adds to a long list of staff from predominantly white schools who are “cushioned from accountability.” “Few examples would include the former principal of Golden Grove Primary School. There are instances where principals and educators facing corruption investigations are allowed to resign and later work at another school. “It is really uncalled for that such is allowed to happen under the watch of the former finance MEC. We will definitely be taking these matters up,” said Sayed. Cape Times