Cape Town - Advocate Dali Mpofu said he would argue at the end of suspended Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane’s impeachment inquiry that anything said by former investigator Tebogo Kekana should be taken with a pinch of salt. “If it is to be taken, actually, it should not be taken at all because you are an unreliable witness,” Mpofu said. He made the statement when he was cross-examining Kekana following his testimony at the inquiry on Tuesday. On Monday, Kekana insisted that the idea of nationalising the South African Reserve Bank (Sarb) was an idea that came from Mkhwebane, but Mpofu said the idea was influenced by the interaction Kekana had with Sarb director Stephen Goodson. “The idea came before we discussed with Goodson,” Kekana said, adding that he did not know what motivated the idea. Mpofu said there was nothing untoward for an inquiry to recommend a constitutional amendment and referred to the Zondo Commission, which recommended direct election of the president. “To amend the Constitution is not a crime. In fact, the Constitution provides for its amendments,” he said. “There is nothing alarming about the proposal. People make proposal for bringing back the death penalty,” Mpofu added. During the cross-examination, Mpofu said Mkhwebane’s evidence would be that one of the issues that she was raising with the leadership of South Africa was the possible impact on the economic stability that would come out of the CIEX report investigation. “It was in that context they were asked for an input,” he said. Mpofu said the incumbent had wanted SSA to give an input so that stability could be assured and an economic expert was brought in the second meeting. But Kekana said his understanding was that they were not asking for economic input but history of their role in the investigation. “We got a draft amendment of the Constitution. That draft was not regarding the economic sector,” he said. Kekana indicated that he did not understand the relevance of some of the issues Mkhwebane had wanted covered in the report, such as #FeesMust Fall, triple challenges and the Freedom Charter, among others. Mpofu also brought up the fact Kekana faced disciplinary hearing while in the employment of the Office of the Public Protector. When asked if he was found guilt of dishonesty, Kekana said he was dismissed for distribution of confidential information without authority. After being repeatedly asked if he was not found to be a dishonest person, Kekana admitted that the presiding officer “indicated in his findings or report”. Cape Times