Cape Town - The Western Cape High Court has ordered the Beaufort West Municipality to show cause why it disconnected the electricity supply to Happie Beleggings property. Judge Vincent Saldanha issued the rule nisi against the municipality and also ordered it to motivate why it should not be interdicted from interfering with the building’s electrical supply. The matter will be heard in court on November 23. Saldanha said the municipality must motivate why a final order should not be granted that the electrical supply to the building, situated on Erf 9 456 should not be immediately reconnected, and why the municipality should not be interdicted from unlawfully interfering with the electricity supply to this specific building. Judge Saldanha also ordered the municipality in the meantime to file an affidavit explaining fully its decision to disconnect the applicant’s electrical supply, and identify those officials involved in such a decision and to file an affidavit explaining their conduct in this regard. Enquiries to the Beaufort West Municipality were not answered by deadline. This comes after Central Karoo District mayor Gayton McKenzie recently cut the electricity supply to a number of buildings “without fear or favour” in the municipal area where he said electricity accounts were in arrears, owing to the municipality. On July 8, Mckenzie cut the electricity of the Central Karoo District Council chambers. “I’m part of this council and it cannot be that we go around cutting the electricity of businesses and other people whilst we are not up to date with our payments; we should be the example,” Mckenzie said. In another post on social media, Mckenzie said: “I am glad to see that business(es) are rushing to pay outstanding debts. These particular businesses paid full outstanding debts of R500 000. The Beaufort West Municipality owes Eskom R65m, and today we will be paying R7m towards that debt, thanks to all the businesses who are now complying.” Another post read: “The Democratic Alliance cut off the electricity of non-paying businesses in Gauteng. Our coalition is cutting of the electricity of non-paying businesses in Western Cape, the DA is now going all out to try and stop us. We will never be stopped by the DA.” DA spokesperson Melt Botes said they noted the judgment by Saldanha. “We note the court order against the municipality and will await the outcome of this case.” In a recent statement, the DA in Beaufort West said Mckenzie’s “reckless conduct may cost residents their jobs”. Constituency head, Deidre Baartman, said: “McKenzie alleges that the businesses he is targeting are ones with electricity accounts that are in arrears. However, many of these accounts are in fact up to date – it is the municipality’s billing system that is not maintained and therefore reflects these accounts incorrectly. His conduct is also highly irregular, since political leaders are not allowed to do the work of government officials.” Cape Times