During July this year, Futurelife  will be celebrating Mandela Month with the goal of providing a  million meals for vulnerable children. This forms part of the company’s massive drive to distribute over 5 million meals to vulnerable children*, as well as build a pre-school.  To help  deliver on this ambitious plan, Futurelife has partnered with the Nelson Mandela Foundation  Early Childhood Development Programme and is inviting all South Africans to join them in this  much-needed initiative. Managing Director of Futurelife, Mark Bunn, says that the harsh reality is that malnutrition and  hunger are a constant for many of South Africa’s children. In fact, alarmingly, 4.6 million of our  nation’s children will go to bed hungry tonight. Through this new partnership, Futurelife is  stepping up to the plate to make sure that this figure changes, and fast! “Futurelife is a brand that believes in health, hope and happiness and that all people should  have access to these through good nutrition. Our partnership with the Nelson Mandela  Foundation Early Childhood Development Programme will allow us to pursue this vision and will  help us reach the children who will really benefit from our smart nutrition,” he adds. Sello Hatang, CEO of the Nelson Mandela Foundation, is excited about the partnership with  Futurelife and considers this initiative an opportunity for South Africans to truly reflect on the  essence of Mandela Day. “Our appeal to South Africans this Nelson Mandela Day is to do what we can, with what we  have, where we are,” Sello explains. “We hope this partnership between the Nelson Mandela  Foundation and Futurelife will provide over 1 million meals of essential nutrition to children in  early childhood development centres across the nation, so they too can thrive.” Futurelife has a  long track record of supporting nutrition, especially for young children in pre-school.  The  company is now taking this initiative nationwide and to roll this out, the partnership with the  Nelson Mandela Foundation Early Childhood Development Programme is critical. “This partnership is the start of an ongoing relationship through which Futurelife will be  creating a sustainable programme to reach more children in need with highly nutritious food,”  Mark explains. “While Futurelife may be spearheading this drive, the need is so great that  during Mandela Month, we are asking all South Africans to get involved, to play their part in  changing the lives of our nation’s children.” To encourage this participation, Futurelife has created a unique SMART FOOD Mandela pack  that will be available at all retailers from mid-June and online at www.futurelife.com. “We have made it as simple as possible for people to get involved as each Futurelife SMART  FOOD Mandela pack features a QR code on the back, linked to a secure online donation portal,  which you can scan.  Alternatively, you can go online and donate a month’s worth of breakfast  to a child in need at donate.futurelife.com. 100% of the funds raised will go towards helping us  to reach more children with life-changing nutrition. Mark says that through this initiative, FUTURELIFE® is striving to keep Nelson Mandela’s legacy  alive, for generations to come. “Every child deserves to start the day with a nutritious meal. We  want to ensure that as many children as possible enjoy this right, enabling them to learn and  grow so that we are safeguarding not only South Africa’s children, but her future too,” he  concludes. For more information on how you can get involved, buy a pack or donate online, go to www.futurelife.com.