Cape Town - A crime intelligence driven operation between Northern Cape and Western Cape police successfully intercepted a Khat drug consignment worth more than R500 000 this week. The office of Crime Intelligence Counter Narcotics in Kimberley acted on a tip-off regarding a truck that was transporting drugs from Gauteng via Kimberley to Cape Town, between Monday and Tuesday. “The Francis Baard District Task Team, was activated to be on the look-out for the alleged truck. The truck was spotted on the N12 near Warrenton. The team with the back-up of the Kimberley Flying Squad, pulled off the truck and directed it to a nearby filling station in Warrenton. The team searched the truck and found six boxes filled with a total of 145 plants of Khat drugs,” Police spokesperson Olebogeng Tawana said. A 44-year-old truck driver was arrested and charged with dealing drugs. “During questioning he informed the team that the consignment was meant to be delivered in Cape Town. The boxes were branded with the names of the end-receivers in Cape Town,” Tawana added. On Wednesday, the Northern Cape, Francis Baard Task Team with the assistance of Western Cape police operationalised the delivery to Cape Town. “The truck was escorted from Warrenton to deliver the Khat drugs to the recipients in Cape Town. The recipients were contacted to collect their delivery on the N1 1Stop filling station near Kraaifontein.” They fled the scene in a Chevrolet Spark subsequent to the collection of their delivery, Tawana said, and a high speed chase by the police ensued. The suspects abandoned their vehicle and fled on foot. One suspect was later arrested and another is still at large. “The suspect is facing counts of dealing in drugs, attempted murder and malicious damage to property. He is expected to appear in the Bellville Magistrate’s Court soon,” Tawana said. Northern Cape Acting Provincial Police Commissioner, Major General Kolisa Otola lauded the Northern Cape and Western Cape teams for their level of commitment and synergy. Cape Times