Cape Town - A Leiden family in Delft are at their wits’ end and without electricity for more than a month after Eskom staff removed their meter box and allegedly never returned as promised. The family said that instead, they have been sent from pillar to post and later accused of illegally tampering with the box that was removed. Chanté Manuel, 28, who lives with her chronically ill mother and two brothers, said: “Eskom electricians came to take the box some time last year after we called them due to noticing there was something wrong with it. While at the house, the electricians also confirmed it seemed faulty, and took the front part of it; the back remained. According to Manuel, they made numerous phone calls to Eskom to no avail. “Eskom has not been replying to any of our emails or complaints. We escalated it to various channels with no success. I attempted to call again and a rude official asked what my family expected Eskom to do because we had tampered with the box and refused to help. Another official advised my mother to get an affidavit at our local police station stating we didn't tamper with the box or commit fraud, and detail what happened. We did everything they requested, but we are still living in the dark. We really don’t know what to do any more,” she said. Manuel said neighbours had opened their homes where they cook and can make use of hot water. “Like anyone else, they are getting tired now of assisting us because we don’t know how long the wait will be. I charge my phone at work. My mother has high blood pressure, high cholesterol and is diabetic. This stress is affecting her health. Eskom is failing us; this is poor service delivery,” she said. Eskom said the matter was being attended to. “Eskom’s customer services is in direct contact with the customer to resolve the matter,” it said. Last week, frustrated Driftsands residents, who also have been without power for about three weeks, marched to the Eskom distribution building in Bellville demanding that the utility restore electricity to the area. Eskom said the community's problem was due to illegal connections from the nearby Covid informal settlement. “Eskom technicians have repeatedly been called out to the area to remove the illegal connections and restore the electricity supply. However, once repairs are completed and electricity supply is restored, the illegal connections are replaced as soon as technicians leave the area.” Cape Times