Cape Town - The Department of Environment, Forestry & Fisheries (DFFE) is calling on the public to comment on proposed regulations pertaining to the exploration and production of onshore oil and gas requiring hydraulic fracturing. DFFE is also publishing, for consultation, the intention to prescribe minimum requirements to submit applications for an authorisation, right, permit or licence for the onshore exploration of oil and gas intending to utilise hydraulic fracturing. The publication of the proposed regulations comes four years after the Supreme Court of Appeal halted plans to roll out hydraulic fracturing/ fracking in the Karoo.  The court had set aside the regulations for Petroleum Exploration and Production that were intended to set standards for the use of hydraulic fracturing technology. “General and specific requirements are set for ongoing environmental monitoring of hydraulic fracturing and production operations, while effect is given to co-ordination between decision-making authorities in relation to monitoring, environmental assessments, time frames for the consideration of applications, conditions of approval and the decision-making process,” said DFFE. “The Hydraulic Fracturing Regulation will be supported by two Minimum Information Requirements (MIR). The first document will consider the environmental requirements for exploration anticipating the use of hydraulic fracturing, and the second will consider the environmental requirements for exploration and production utilising hydraulic fracturing technology.” Green Connection outreach co-ordinator Neville van Rooy said the organisation’s stance was clear, it was not in favour of hydraulic fracturing. “While our stance is crystal clear in the Karoo, we have the right to say no and we will stand on our right to say no. We believe we have a right to an environment that is not harmful to our health and well-being. The Karoo is especially a water-scarce area.  “Hydraulic fracturing is a water-intensive exercise that is not a favourable exercise or a favourable development for the Karoo.  “Where will the water come from, and who will compete for water? So we will exercise our right to say no and continue to stand on our right to say no,” he said. Civic organisation Masifundise, which provides support to small-scale fishers, said it was concerned with the impact of fracking activities on the environment. “We do have concerns with fracking activities being promoted, even onshore,” said Masifundise programme manager Carmen Mannarino. “Our concerns are related to environmental damages that fracking activities are likely to lead to, including water contamination and depletion of water resources. This can have a very negative impact on inland and coastal fishing activities, and the food system in its entirety. Additionally, we remain very concerned with the overall impact of exploration and use of fossil fuels on the environment and climate change.  “Fishing and coastal communities are on the front line, experiencing the impact of climate change and the ongoing efforts to expand, rather than reduce, the use of fossil fuels in South Africa is very concerning for the lives and livelihoods of fishing and coastal communities, and other vulnerable communities, but in urban and rural areas,” Mannarino said.  The public has 45 days to comment and make written submissions on the regulations and the minimum requirements which are available on the department’s website.  Written comments or input can be posted to: Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment, The Director-General, Attention: Dr Dee Fischer, Private Bag X447, Pretoria,  0001 or by e-mail at dfischer@dffe.gov.za Cape Times