A destitute  Vredenburg family has been summoned to appear at the Vredenburg Magistrate’s Court for allegedly erecting Wendy houses without the approval of the municipality’s building department.  According to legal papers, between April 1 and June 30 they intentionally and unlawfully built an illegal structure without following the correct processes.  The family also faces an admission of guilt fine of R5 000 for each Wendy house erected.  Unemployed mother Rose-Ann Johnson claimed issues started when they had an altercation with the municipality’s Speaker, Olwene Daniels, who is also their neighbour.  “I am the neighbour of the Speaker, I stay next to her. My parents have been staying here for more than 20 years. The issue started on 16 June when the Speaker was playing very loud music. We have a 10pm noise cut-off time and the music was still playing after 10.30pm. On this day our baby was sick and struggling to sleep. So we went around to ask if they could turn the music a bit down. That’s when the Speaker came out and told us that no one can tell to her turn the music down in her house,” she said. Johnson said they then called law enforcement for assistance.  “It came to past 1am. Around this time they were still continuing with the party. The law enforcement officer spoke to her, gave her a piece of paper and left. As soon as he left she started hurling insults at us, saying who were we to tell her to turn her music down while we stay in shacks. She told us we don’t belong here,“ she said.  “There are two Wendy houses in the yard. One has been here for about ten years and one has been standing here for more than a year already. Now all of a sudden this is an issue. I don’t know how all of this is going to work out.  I am unemployed. I just have to wait and see what’s going to happen now.” Daniels declined to comment and has since rejected the Cape Times’ attempts to reach her.  Municipality spokesperson, Ethne Lawrence confirmed a criminal case was pending.  “A criminal case is pending against the owners of Erf 7246 Vredenburg for contravention of Section4(1)(2)(4) and 5(1) of the National Building Regulations for the erection of an illegal structure without the approval of the Building Department as required by law and still sub judice. “The municipality did not issue any fines as all fines related to this contravention are issued by a magistrate of the relevant court,“  said Lawrence.  Patriotic Alliance Deputy Provincial Leader Sammy Claassen said they were concerned by the matter.  “We should investigate the possible abuse of power and the contravention of the code of conduct for councillors,” he said. Cape Times