Cape Town - The Delft community are reeling in shock after yet another police officer was shot and killed in the area while sitting in his vehicle. The incident comes just days after policewoman, Shamiela Arendse, was shot and killed outside her home in the same community and weeks after railway police officer, Siyakubonga Mphakathi from Mfuleni, was gunned down in Philippi while driving his vehicle. Delft CPF chairperson Charles George has called on the police minister to bring the perpetrators to book. “The Delft CPF would like to express our heartfelt condolences to the family, friends and colleagues of (the officer). We are shocked that another police officer is gunned down in Delft within a space of 10 days. We ask the minister of police to assist our local police station and make all necessary arrangements to bring to book these ruthless killers in our community,” said George. According to a source, the off-duty officer was gunned down after a hijacking incident where suspects had taken his VW Touran.  The vehicle was discovered in Elsies River just hours after the murder. “According to information, the suspects were standing near the (now) deceased's  vehicle and asked him if he was not ‘China’. He told them he is a policeman, then one of the suspects took out a firearm and shot him. Suspects took the (now) deceased new vehicle, VW Touran with no number plate and fled the scene,” the source said. Police spokesperson Andrè Traut said three suspects aged between 30 and 40 will appear in court on charges of murder and hijacking. “The 31-year-old constable stationed at Gugulethu police station was gunned down at around 3.30am in Delius street, Delft South, and robbed of his vehicle, a VW Touran. Our investigation led to the discovery of the vehicle in Elsies River (yesterday morning) and the subsequent arrest of the suspects, who are scheduled for a court appearance in Blue Downs, once they have been charged. Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (DPCI) detectives have been assigned to probe the circumstances surrounding this incident,” said Traut. On June 21, Arendse was shot and killed while standing outside her home. She was hit four times. The two Delft incidents follow the killing of railway police officer Mphakathi in Philippi where he was shot through a vehicle window by unknown suspects. Murder dockets were opened for investigation and detectives from DPCI had taken over the murder cases. Anyone with information on the incident can anonymously contact Crime Stop at 0860010111, or SMS Crime Line at 32211 or use the MySAPS App.  Cape Times