Cape Town - Independent Civic Organisation of South Africa (Icosa) councillor in the Drakenstein Municipality, Rodney Nell is accused of allegedly threatening to send the 28’s gang to residents who have raised concerns about his relationship with a young woman. A petition has since been launched calling for Nell, 52, to be removed as a councillor through a motion of no confidence. But Nell has rejected the allegation that he had threatened some residents, calling the claims a “witchhunt and a personal attack against me”. Nell recently started a relationship with a 20-year-old. This was not easy for the community to accept, according to the petition. “The young lady just turned 20 in December 2021. The relationship has been going on for three months. At the same time, the councillor was also involved in another relationship.  “Although the lady is described as an adult, she is still a child of our community and young enough to be the councillor's child. After all, we have values ​​and standards in our community when it comes to such issues.  “Councillor Nell is supposed to set an example to our young men and women, as well as the wider Drakenstein community,” read the petition. “The councillor mentioned to some young men that he would send the 28’s gang to come for them. We the community are fully aware of what is currently going on around us. We, as a community, feel cheated, betrayed and lied to by the councillor. We feel cheated about his true character.” Nell confirmed the relationship with the 20-year-old on Thursday, saying he had asked for a blessing from her father to date her. “I know the people who are behind this. They have been trying for the last two months to tarnish my name. They have been to the municipality, telling them that they need to remove me. But they don’t really have substance to the allegations. It’s just people conspiring and that’s it. “All these things it’s because I am dating this girl. I even went to Upington this weekend and her father gave us a blessing. According to our South African law, when you turn 18 years old, you are an adult. My girlfriend is 20 years old and is turning 21 in six months. She is regarded as an adult,” he said. Icosa provincial leader Dawid Kamfer said they had not received any complaints from residents yet. “If people feel strongly about the alleged actions they must go to open a case with the police. If they have proof, they can also write to us if they are a member of the party and we will look into that. The lady issue; it’s a personal thing. We cannot involve ourselves in that,“ said Kamfer. Drakenstein Municipality spokesperson Riana Geldenhuys said the municipality became aware of an alleged online petition two days ago through the media. “Any allegations concerning any municipal councillor should please be reported to the Office of the Speaker so that it can be investigated,” she said. Meanwhile, MEC for Local Government, Anton Bredell, has requested a written report of allegations relating to possible maladministration, fraud, corruption and/or other serious malpractices at the Kannaland municipality. Among those are against controversial Icosa councillors, Jeffrey Donson, Werner Meshoa and Hyrin Ruiters. They are accused of allegedly making fraudulent travel and subsistence claims to the municipality under the false pretence of performing official duties during 2014/15. Cape Times