Cape Town - A Gugulethu pensioner and her daughter’s frustration continues to grow over alleged bullying tactics by Standard Bank, as the bank has still not paid back money owed. Colleen Mboso, handling the litigation on behalf of her elderly and ill mother Eunice, said they were at their wits end as the bank was not forthcoming with signing over the title deed of her mother’s Khanya Park home in Gugulethu, after the bank had confirmed the bond had been paid up. Mboso previously told Cape Times  about her “13-year legal merry-go-round” with the bank, despite the financial institution at the time confirming that the matter was still before the court. But Mboso said no progress had been made. “This matter is stressing me and my mother out. My mom is bed-ridden, while I am her only child who is also on disability, after I became the victim of a shooting incident and declared medically unfit to work. “We do not understand how the bank still can’t bring the matter to finality after they themselves issued us a letter confirming that her bond has been paid up, and in fact she overpaid on her bond.  “They were ordered by the court to pay back these monies. I don’t care if it’s R2, it must be paid back. The money must be paid and the title deed, which is most important, signed over to my mother,” said Mboso. Continued efforts to get comment from Standard Bank went answered this week.  According to Mboso over the past four months, she had followed up regarding the matter, but kept getting hit with dead-end answers. “My mother has made applications to get pro bono legal representation from the Law Society. And we have been enquiring if they can close her case, but the bank insists the case is before the court.  “It is now made to look as if my mother is exploiting and manipulating the system but we can’t close her case if the matter isn’t resolved before the court, as the bank insists continuing with litigation, even though they are the ones who confirmed her bond had been paid up,” said Mboso. During March this year, a Standard Bank spokesperson said the matter “has a long litigious history”. At the time a trial date had not yet been set and the bank maintained that Mboso “remains in default of her obligations under the home-loan agreement”. Cape Times